We describe an extension of the SOFTSUSY spectrum calculator to include two-loop supersymmetric QCD (SUSYQCD) corrections of order O ( α s 2 ) to gluino and squark pole masses, either in the minimal supersymmetric standard model (MSSM) or the next-to-minimal supersymmetric standard model (NMSSM). This document provides an overview of the program and acts as a manual for the new version of SOFTSUSY, which includes the increase in accuracy in squark and gluino pole mass predictions. Program summary Program title: SOFTSUSY Program Files doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.17632/sh77x9j7hs.1 Licensing provisions: GNU GPLv3 Programming language: C++, fortran, C Nature of problem: Calculating supersymmetric particle spectrum, mixing parameters and couplings in the MSSM or the NMSSM. The solution to the renormalization group equations must be consistent with theoretical boundary conditions on supersymmetry breaking parameters, as well as a weak-scale boundary condition on gauge couplings, Yukawa couplings and the Higgs potential parameters. Solution method: Nested fixed point iteration. Restrictions: SOFTSUSY will provide a solution only in the perturbative regime and it assumes that all couplings of the model are real (i.e. C P − conserving). If the parameter point under investigation is non-physical for some reason (for example because the electroweak potential does not have an acceptable minimum), SOFTSUSY returns an error message. The higher order corrections included are for the MSSM ( R -parity conserving or violating) or the real R -parity conserving NMSSM only. Journal reference of previous version: Comput. Phys. Comm. 189 (2015) 192. Does the new version supersede the previous version?: Yes. Reasons for the new version: It is desirable to improve the accuracy of the squark and gluinos mass predictions, since they strongly affect supersymmetric particle production cross-sections at colliders. Summary of revisions: The calculation of the squark and gluino pole masses is extended to be of next-to-next-to leading order in SUSYQCD, i.e. including terms up to O ( g s 4 ∕ ( 16 π 2 ) 2 ) . Additional comments: Program obtainable from http://softsusy.hepforge.org/