This paper presents the results of an experimental study into the effect of add-on type leading edge serrations on the aeroacoustic and aerodynamic performances of a symmetrical NACA0008 aerofoil. The aeroacoustic part of this paper studies the reduction of interaction broadband noise in the presence of elevated freestream turbulence by employing serrated leading edges. For non-dimensional frequencies f′ < 1, the resulting sound pressure level reduction (ΔSPL) was found to be a linear function of f′ and the ΔSPL depends only on the serration amplitude, serration wavelength and freestream velocity. Leading edge with a large serration amplitude was found to be very effective in the reduction of broadband noise where up to ΔSPL ≈ 8 dB is achievable. It is generally more beneficial to choose a leading edge with a smaller serration wavelength, although the most effective configuration actually combines the largest serration amplitude and the largest serration wavelength. Interestingly, for a curved-serration, the most optimised configuration (with small serration wavelength, large serration amplitude, small inclination angle and large curvature radius) was found to outperform its straight-serration counterpart by a further 5 dB reduction of broadband noise at the same frequency. Concerning the aerodynamic part of the study, to effectively suppress boundary layer stall without incurring severe drag penalties for low freestream turbulence intensity, the most effective leading edge serration should possess a large serration wavelength and small serration amplitude. Hence, the serration geometry that works very well for a low noise aerofoil is usually inferior in the aerodynamic performance, and vice versa. The best compromise for the serration geometry that can still harness good performances in both the aeroacoustic and aerodynamic should possess the largest serration amplitude and the largest serration wavelength. This paper demonstrates that, when optimised properly, the add-on type leading edge serration can be very effective in both the reduction of the interaction broadband noise, and the suppression of the boundary layer separation at high angle of attack.