The output power generated by a vibrational magnetostrictive energy harvester depends on several parameters, some of them linked to the mechanical source, as vibration amplitude and frequency, others related to design quantities, like mechanical preload, magnetic bias, coil turns and load impedance. Complex models have been developed in literature to reproduce the behavior of these devices. However, for output variables such as power and voltage, one moves in a space of many variables and it is not trivial to reconstruct an overall behavior of the device. The aim of this paper is to provide a wide picture concerning the device behavior investigating experimentally the output power and voltage as a function of the mechanical and especially magnetic bias, varying the amplitude and frequency of the driving vibration. A galfenol rod (Fe81Ga19) sample inserted in a three-legged magnetizer is utilized to vary the magnetic bias and to provide the flux closure to the sample, while a dynamic test machine provides both the mechanical bias and the driving vibration at different frequencies up to 100 Hz. The paper analysis has highlighted that the output power and voltage depend on the magnetic bias according to an exponentially modified Gaussian distribution. Keeping constant the other parameters and varying the mechanical bias, a family of modified Gaussian distributions is obtained. Moreover, fixing the electric load, the amplitude and frequency of the vibration, the couple of values “magnetic bias – mechanical preload” corresponding to the maximum output power of the device depicts a linear behavior. The results here obtained point out that it is possible to simplify the design of magnetostrictive energy harvesters and to obtain high output power even with permanent magnets providing a relatively small coercive field. The results have been confirmed by using two yokes equipped with permanent magnets on the external columns. The maximum output average power obtained with permanent magnets has been 796 mW equal to 6.5 mW/cm3 with a sinusoidal vibration amplitude of 40 MPa at 100 Hz.