Purpose We previously have shown the feasibility of duodenum sparing using a biodegradable hydrogel spacer in pancreatic cancer radiation therapy. In this study, we propose an overlap volume histogram (OVH) prediction model to select patients who might benefit from hydrogel placement and to predict the hydrogel spacing required to achieve clinical constraints. Methods and Materials OVH metrics for the duodenum were collected from the stereotactic body radiation therapy plans of 232 patients with unresectable pancreatic cancer (33 Gy in 5 fractions). OVH metrics L9cc and L3cc were defined as the tumor volume expansion distance at which 9 cm3 and 3 cm3 volumes of the duodenum overlap with tumor. D9cc and D3cc of the duodenum were defined as the dose-volume histogram dose to 9 cm3 and 3 cm3, respectively, of the duodenum. Prediction models were established by linear regression between Lx and Dx, where x = 3 cm3 and 9 cm3. OVH thresholds were obtained for predicting the target spacer thickness. The accuracy of the prediction model was then evaluated using treatment plans on pre–and post–hydrogel injection computed tomography scans from 2 cadaver specimens and 6 patients with previously treated locally advanced pancreatic cancer with simulated spacer. Results Linear regression analysis showed a significant correlation between Lx and Dx (r2 = 0.51 and 0.51 for L3cc-D3cc and L9cc-D9cc, respectively; both P < .01). The OVH thresholds were L ˆ 3cc = 7 mm and L ˆ 9cc = 13 mm. The observed planning doses D3cc and D9cc of duodenum from pre–and post–hydrogel injection computed tomography scans of cadaver specimens and clinical patients with simulated spacer using predicted target spacer thickness were within the OVH model prediction range. Conclusion Our model may predict which patients require placement of a hydrogel spacer before stereotactic body radiation therapy to meet predefined dose constraints. Furthermore, by predicting the required target hydrogel thickness, the spacer injection can be better guided to improve efficacy.