In this letter we introduce an integral equation that allows to calculate the exact left-hand-cut discontinuity for an uncoupled S-wave partial-wave amplitude in potential scattering for a given finite-range potential. In particular this is applied here to the S 0 1 nucleon–nucleon (NN) partial wave. The calculation of Δ ( A ) is completely fixed by the potential because short-range physics (corresponding to integrated out degrees of freedom within the low-energy Effective Field Theory) does not contribute to Δ ( A ) . The results obtained from the N / D method for a partial-wave amplitude are rigorous, since now the discontinuities along the left-hand cut and right-hand cut are exactly known. This solves in this case the open question with respect to the N / D method and the effect on the final result of the non-perturbative iterative diagrams in the evaluation of Δ ( A ) . The solution of this problem also implies the equivalence of the N / D method and the Lippmann–Schwinger (LS) equation for the nonsingular one-pion exchange S 0 1 NN potential (Yukawa potential). The equivalence between the N / D method with one extra subtraction and the LS equation renormalized with one counterterm or with subtractive renormalization also holds for the singular attractive S 0 1 NN potentials calculated by including higher orders in Chiral Perturbation Theory (ChPT). However, the N / D method is more flexible and, rather straightforwardly, it allows to evaluate partial-wave amplitudes with a higher number of extra subtractions, that we fix in terms of shape parameters within the effective range expansion. We give results up to three extra subtractions in the N / D method, which provide a rather accurate reproduction of the S 0 1 NN phase shifts when the NNLO ChPT potential is employed. Our new method then provides a general theory to renormalize non-perturbatively singular and regular potentials in scattering that can be extended to higher partial waves as well as to coupled channel scattering.