Objectives Given the promise of DMPA-SC to increase community-level access to modern contraception in developing countries, we conducted an observational study to assess the acceptability and feasibility of DMPA-SC self-injection among women in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo, and of medical/nursing (M/N) students as instructors for self-injection. Study design Women who selected DMPA-SC at a community outreach event adjacent to a health center were interviewed upon acceptance (baseline) and then 3, 6 and 12 months later. Results Of 850 clients selecting DMPA-SC at baseline, 640 (75.3%) opted for self-injection over being injected by the M/N students for reasons of convenience and personal agency. Among these 640 self-injectors, 47.5% were anxious at baseline (for fear of needles or injecting incorrectly). Over 80% reported feeling very ready after training, confident that they knew how to self-inject and confident that they would remember the next injection date. By 3 months, 97% described it as easy. Half (54%) experienced side effects, mainly menstrual irregularities, the main reason for discontinuation. At 6-month follow-up, self-injectors cited effectiveness and ease of use as positive elements, though one quarter reported side effects. Their impressions of M/N students as instructors were highly positive. Conclusions Where DMPA-SC was free and easily accessible, the majority of women interested in DMPA-SC opted to learn self-injection. The M/N students performed well in instructing women to self-inject. Clients were highly satisfied with the services received, yet many did not recognize their student status, possibly because outreach occurred near a health facility. Once told, clients remained very favorable, suggesting strong motivation to receive their preferred contraceptive free, whoever the provider. Implication statement This study provides additional evidence on the acceptability and the feasibility of the self-injection of DMPA-SC by users from a resource-limited setting.