Objectives This paper presents the impact of key components of the Senegal Urban Reproductive Health Initiative, including radio, television, community-based activities, Muslim religious-leader engagement and service quality improvement on modern contraceptive use by all women and the sub-sample of poor women. Study design This study uses baseline (2011) and endline (2015) longitudinal data from a representative sample of urban women first surveyed in 2011 to examine the impact of the Initiative's demand- and supply-side activities on modern contraceptive use. Results By endline, there was increased exposure to radio and television programming, religious leaders speaking favorably about contraception, and community-based initiatives. In the same period, modern contraceptive use increased from 16.9% to 22.1% with a slightly larger increase among the poor (16.6% to 24.1%). Multivariate analyses demonstrate that women exposed to community-based activities were more likely to use modern contraception by endline (marginal effect (ME): 5.12; 95% confidence interval (CI): 2.50–7.74) than those not exposed. Further, women living within 1 km of a facility with family planning guidelines were more likely to use (ME: 3.54; 95% CI: 1.88–5.20) than women without a nearby facility with guidelines. Among poor women, community-based activities, radio exposure (ME: 4.21; 95% CI: 0.49–7.93), and living close to program facilities (ME: 4.32; 95% CI: 0.04–8.59) impacted use. Conclusions Community-based activities are important for reaching urban women, including poor women, to achieve increased contraceptive use. Radio programming is also an important tool for increasing demand, particularly among poor women. Impacts of other program activities on contraceptive use were modest. Implications This study demonstrates that community-based activities led to increased modern contraceptive use among all women and poor women in urban Senegal. These findings can inform future programs in urban Senegal and elsewhere in francophone Africa.