Objective Intrauterine administration of polidocanol foam (PF) can create fallopian tube occlusion in nonhuman primates. The objective of this study was to determine if PF-induced tubal obstructions contain collagen in the extracellular matrix. Study design We compared tissue samples of the intramural fallopian tube obtained from previous studies evaluating the effects of intrauterine infusion of 5% PF 2–12 weeks after treatment. Serial sections of the intramural portion of the fallopian tube obtained from representative treated (rhesus macaques, n=7; baboon, n=11) and untreated control (macaque, n=3; baboon, n=5) animals were stained with hematoxylin and eosin to identify tubal occlusion and by immunohistochemistry for collagens Col-I, Col-III and Col-IV. Descriptive results are summarized. Results Control animals exhibited histologically normal fallopian tubal epithelium with no staining for Col-1, light staining for Col-III and Col-V in the lamina propria and Col-IV distributed evenly in the extracellular matrix of the lamina propria. Treatment with PF resulted in acute tissue damage confined to the intramural tube; no epithelial damage or occlusion occurred in the tubal isthmus or ampulla. Blockade of the intramural tube demonstrated fibrosis with the epithelium replaced with extracellular matrix that stained strongly for Col-I, Col-III, Col-IV and Col-V. Col-II was undetectable. Conclusion Tubal blockage induced by PF resulted in loss of normal epithelium and accumulation of collagens Col-I, Col-III, Col-IV and Col-V at the site of obstruction. The presence of dense collagen staining supports the hypothesis that PF infusion creates lasting tubal obstructions. Implications This study demonstrates that PF-induced tubal occlusion results in deposition of collagens suggesting the potential for a more lasting blockade. The structural nature of this occlusion supports the development of intrauterine administration of PF as a nonsurgical method of permanent contraception.