Background Subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is a devastating cerebrovascular disease that leads to poor outcomes. Neurogenesis, an essential recovery mechanism after brain injury, has not been fully elucidated after SAH. Methods A total of 122 SD rats were used in this study. For experiment one, the rats were randomly divided into six groups: sham and SAH with different time points (1,3,5,7,14 days) (n = 12/group). An endovascular perforation method was conducted for SAH model. Rats were injected with 5-Bromo-2′-deoxyuridine (BrdU, 50 mg/kg) 24 h before euthanasia at different time points after SAH. The BrdU labeled cells were detected by immunohistochemistry; Doublecortin (DCX) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) were measured by western blot and immunohistochemistry. For experiment two, rats were randomly divided into five groups: sham and SAH with different time points (1, 2, 4, 8 weeks) (n = 6/group). Rats received BrdU (50 mg/kg) once daily for 7 days after the induction of SAH. Double immunofluorescence staining was used to verify proliferation, differentiation and migration of progenitor cells. Rotarod test and water maze used to test the neurobehavioral recovery. Results Our results showed that BrdU positive cells in hippocampus changed overtime after SAH. BrdU positive cells decreased as early as 1 day reaching lowest levels at 3 days after SAH, after which it gradually recovered. Similar change patterns were observed with DCX, which was reversed with GFAP. In addition, BrdU did not co-localize with cleaved caspase-3. The BrdU positive cells mainly differentiated into immature neurons for short-term fate, whereas they differentiated into mature neurons for long-term fate but not astrocytes, which facilitated neurobehavioral recovery after SAH. Conclusion Neurogenesis in the hippocampus changes overtime after SAH. The neuronal progenitor cells may play an essential role in the neurobehavioral recovery after brain injury induced by SAH, since short-term progenitors helped with the recovery of immature neurons in the hippocampus, whereas long-term progenitors differentiated into mature neurons.