Background Bioprosthetics derived from human or porcine dermis and intestinal submucosa have dense, homogenous, aporous collagen structures that potentially limit cellular penetration, undermining the theoretical benefit of a “natural” collagen scaffold. We hypothesized that Miromesh—a novel prosthetic derived from porcine liver by perfusion decellularization—provides a more optimal matrix for tissue ingrowth. Methods Thirty rats underwent survival surgery that constituted the creation of a 4 × 1 cm abdominal defect and simultaneous bridged repair. Twenty rats were bridged with Miromesh, and 10 rats were bridged with non–cross-linked porcine dermis (Strattice). Ten Miromesh and all 10 Strattice were rinsed in vancomycin solution and inoculated with 104 colony-forming units of green fluorescent protein–labeled Staphylococcus aureus (GFP-SA) after implantation. Ten Miromesh controls were neither soaked nor inoculated. No animals received systemic antibiotics. All animals were euthanized at 90 d and underwent an examination of their gross appearance before being sectioned for quantitative bacterial culture and histologic grading. A pathologist scored specimens (0–4) for cellular infiltration, acute inflammation, chronic inflammation, granulation tissue, foreign body reaction, and fibrous capsule formation. Results All but one rat repaired with Strattice survived until the 90-d euthanization. All quantitative bacterial cultures for inoculated specimens were negative for GFP-SA. Of nine Strattice explants, none received a cellular infiltration score >0, consistent with a poor tissue–mesh interface observed grossly. Of 10 Miromesh explants also inoculated with GFP-SA, seven of 10 demonstrated cellular infiltration with an average score of +2.7 ± 0.8, whereas sterile Miromesh implants received an average score of 0.8 ± 1.0. Two inoculated Miromesh implants demonstrated acute inflammation and infection on histology. Conclusions A prosthetic generated from porcine liver by perfusion decellularization provides a matrix for superior cellular infiltration compared with non–cross-linked porcine dermis.