Clade V nematodes comprise several parasitic species that include the cyathostomins, primary helminth pathogens of horses. Next generation transcriptome datasets are available for eight parasitic clade V nematodes, although no equine parasites are included in this group. Here, we report next generation transcriptome sequencing analysis for the common cyathostomin species, Cylicostephanus goldi. A cDNA library was generated from RNA extracted from 17 C. goldi male and female adult parasites. Following sequencing using a 454 GS FLX pyrosequencer, a total of 475,215 sequencing reads were generated, which were assembled into 26,910 contigs. Using Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes databases, 27% of the transcriptome was annotated. Further in-depth analysis was carried out by comparing the C. goldi dataset with the next generation transcriptomes and genomes of other clade V nematodes, with the Oesophagostomum dentatum transcriptome and the Haemonchus contortus genome showing the highest levels of sequence identity with the cyathostomin dataset (45%). The C. goldi transcriptome was mined for genes associated with anthelmintic mode of action and/or resistance. Sequences encoding proteins previously associated with the three major anthelmintic classes used in horses were identified, with the exception of the P-glycoprotein group. Targeted resequencing of the glutamate gated chloride channel α4 subunit (glc-3), one of the primary targets of the macrocyclic lactone anthelmintics, was performed for several cyathostomin species. We believe this study reports the first transcriptome dataset for an equine helminth parasite, providing the opportunity for in-depth analysis of these important parasites at the molecular level. Sequences encoding enzymes involved in key processes and genes associated with levamisole/pyrantel and macrocyclic lactone resistance, in particular the glutamate gated chloride channels, were identified. This novel data will inform cyathostomin biology and anthelmintic resistance studies in future.