Purpose Fragility fractures are a clinical consequence of osteoporosis (OP). Evidence suggests however, current OP treatments may be inadequate in reducing fracture risk. The purpose of this study was to estimate the proportion and characteristics of Swedish patients who remain at high risk of fracture after 2 years of treatment, as evidenced by osteoporotic bone mineral density (BMD), a decrease in BMD, or the occurrence of new fractures. Methods This was a retrospective, descriptive analysis of a subset of participants obtained from a Swedish osteoporosis patient registry from 1991 to 2009. Patients were required to be osteoporotic, to be treatment naive at baseline, to have returned for at least 1 follow-up visit, and to have reported osteoporosis treatment use for ≥2 years after the baseline visit with a BMD T score. Two overlapping cohorts remaining at high risk of fracture were defined using the BMD T score measured after 2 years of treatment from baseline. The osteoporosis cohort comprised patients who remained osteoporotic, whereas the BMD decrease cohort included patients whose total hip or lumbar spine T score decreased by ≥3%. Findings A total of 3292 osteoporotic patients were identified in the registry, of whom 392 met the study inclusion criteria. The mean (SD) patient age was 68.3 (8.5) years, with most patients being female (92.3%). Among all patients, 297 (75.8%) remained osteoporotic after at least 2 years of treatment, 90 (23.0%) experienced a BMD decrease of ≥3%, and 23 (5.9%) reported an incident fracture between the baseline and first follow-up visit. More than three-quarters (76.8%) of all patients reported taking bisphosphonates, whereas only 72.4% and 47.8% reported this in the osteoporosis and BMD decrease cohorts, respectively. Raloxifene was the only nonbisphosphonate used, with 24.2% of all patients reportedly taking it. Implications This study highlighted that despite 2 years of osteoporosis treatment, a high percentage of patients remain at high risk of fracture. There is a need for improved treatment strategies that reduce fracture risk and improve patient outcomes in the real-world setting.