Seasonal influenza results in substantial morbidity, mortality and socio-economic burden. The US Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recommends vaccination of everyone over 6 months of age, but coverage remains substantially below the Healthy People 2020 target of 70% in most age groups. Influenza is different from other vaccine-preventable diseases in several ways that influence vaccine uptake. Although the incidence of most vaccine-preventable diseases is low, there is a perception that these diseases result in significant illness or death. In contrast, seasonal influenza has a relatively high incidence, but there is an incorrect perception of a lower disease severity. The vaccine effectiveness of seasonal influenza vaccines is less than other routine vaccines, varies from season to season between northern and southern hemispheres, and can be low in some seasons. It is also not well recognized that vaccination can attenuate the severity of influenza illness. Finally, the need for annual vaccination is perceived as a burden to busy people. Understanding these differences from the perspective of caregivers and vaccinees might help to improve influenza vaccine uptake. Presenting vaccine effectiveness in terms of clinical outcomes that have the most impact might help to overcome the perceptions that influenza is a non-serious disease and that the vaccine is not effective. The benefits of disease attenuation need to be emphasized in terms of reduced mortality, hospitalization, absenteeism and disruption to daily life. Innovative communication strategies should be adopted, including stronger recommendations from and to healthcare providers, continuous patient education, and social media initiatives employing more emotional and narrative approaches than traditionally used. Finally, access to seasonal influenza vaccination needs to be improved, and barriers such as cost and inconvenience removed. Multiple initiatives have already been successful. The remaining challenge is to translate individual successes into public health policies with corresponding funding and implementation.