Liposomal vaccines incorporating adjuvant and CD4 T cell helper peptides enhance antibody responses against weakly immunogenic B cell epitopes such as found in the membrane proximal external region (MPER) of the HIV-1 gp41 subunit. While the inclusion of exogenous helper peptides in vaccine formulations facilitates stronger and more durable antibody responses, the helper peptide incorporation strategy per se may influence the overall magnitude and quality of B cell target antigen immunogenicity. Both variability in individual peptide encapsulation as well as the potential for liposome surface-associated helper peptides to misdirect the humoral response are potential parameters impacting outcome. In this study, we used MPER/liposome vaccines as a model system to examine how the mode of the potent LACK T helper peptide formulation modulates antibody responses against the MPER antigen. We directly compared liposome surface-arrayed palmitoyl LACK (pLACK) versus soluble LACK (sLACK) encapsulated in the liposomes and free in solution. Independent of LACK formulation methods, dendritic cell activation and LACK presentation were equivalent in vivo. The frequency of MPER-specific GC B cells promoted by sLACK was higher than that stimulated by pLACK formulation, a finding associated with a significantly greater frequency of LACK-specific GC B cells induced by pLACK. While there were no significant differences in the quantity of MPER-specific serological responses, the MPER-specific antibody titer trended higher with sLACK formulated vaccines at the lower dose of LACK. However, pLACK generated relatively greater MPER-specific antibody affinities than those induced by sLACK-formulated vaccines. Overall, the results suggest that liposomal surface-associated LACK enhances immunogenicity of LACK through better engagement of LACK-specific B cells. Of note, this is not detrimental to the induction of MPER-specific immune responses; rather, the elicitation of higher affinity anti-MPER antibodies benefits from augmented help delivered via covalent linkage of the pLACK CD4 T cell epitope in conjunction with MPER/liposome presentation.