Background Under the auspices of the World Health Organization (WHO) Global Action Plan, PATH supported evaluation of a trivalent, seasonal inactivated influenza vaccine candidate produced by the Institute of Vaccines and Medical Biologicals (IVAC), a Vietnamese manufacturer. Methods In 2015, 60 healthy adult subjects 18–45years of age were enrolled in a Phase 1, single center, double blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study conducted at a district health center in Thai Binh Province, Vietnam. The study evaluated the overall safety and immunogenicity of a seasonal, trivalent inactivated split virion influenza vaccine. Volunteers were given either vaccine or placebo in a randomized 1:1 ratio. After undergoing screening, eligible volunteers provided their signed consent and were enrolled in the study. On the first day of immunization, randomly chosen volunteers received IVACFLU-S 15μg (mcg) hemagglutinin of each of the three strains in 0.5mL or placebo by intramuscular injection. All volunteers were monitored for adverse events and underwent blood testing at screening and Day 8 to assess the vaccine candidate’s safety. Sera obtained before and 21days after immunization were tested for influenza antibody titers using the hemagglutination-inhibition (HAI) and microneutralization tests (MNT). Results Vaccine was well tolerated, and there were no serious adverse events reported. HAI and MNT identified serum antibody responses against the three influenza strains in nearly all volunteers who received the vaccine. Overall, serum HAI responses of fourfold or greater were observed in 93 percent, 83 percent, and 77 percent of H1, H3, and B strains, respectively. Seroprotection rates were also very high. Conclusions IVAC’s seasonal, trivalent influenza vaccine was safe and well tolerated and induced high levels of seroconversion and seroprotection rates. These clinical data are a first step towards demonstrating the feasibility of producing the vaccine locally and that seasonal vaccine production in Vietnam may be an effective strategy for enhancing the global influenza vaccine supply. ClinicalTrials.gov number NCT02598089, October 15, 2015.