Background To support vaccination programs in developing countries, a 4-dose vial presentation of pneumococcal non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae protein D-conjugate vaccine (PHiD-CV) was developed. This study assessed immunologic non-inferiority and safety of the investigational PHiD-CV 4-dose versus licensed 1-dose vial presentation in infants. Methods In this phase III, mono-center, observer-blind study in Bangladesh, 6–10-week-old infants were randomized 1:1 to receive PHiD-CV primary vaccination (at ages 6, 10, 18 weeks) and a booster dose (at age 9 months) with a 4-dose vial (with preservative, 4DV group) or 1-dose vial (preservative-free, 1DV group). DTPw-HBV/Hib was (co)-administered per study protocol and polio, measles and rubella vaccines as part of the national immunization program. Non-inferiority of PHiD-CV 4-dose versus 1-dose vial for each vaccine pneumococcal serotype (VT) and vaccine-related serotype 19A in terms of antibody geometric mean concentration (GMC) was assessed (criterion: upper limit of 2-sided 95% confidence interval of antibody GMC ratios [1DV/4DV] <2-fold). Immune responses were measured. Solicited, unsolicited and serious adverse events (AEs) were evaluated. Results Of 320 infants (160 per group) vaccinated during the primary vaccination phase, 297 received a booster. Non-inferiority was demonstrated for each VT and 19A. One month post-primary vaccination, for most VT, ≥97.9% of infants in each group had antibody concentrations ≥0.2 μg/mL; for 19A ≥ 80.1% reached this threshold. Pneumococcal antibody responses and opsonophagocytic activity for each VT and 19A were within similar ranges between groups after primary and booster vaccination, as were anti-protein D responses. Booster immune responses were observed in both groups. Reported AEs were within similar ranges for both presentations. Conclusion Immunologic non-inferiority of PHiD-CV 4-dose vial (with preservative) versus PHiD-CV 1-dose vial (preservative-free) was demonstrated. Immune responses and reactogenicity following primary/booster vaccination were within similar ranges for both presentations. PHiD-CV 4-dose vial would help improve access and coverage in resource-limited countries. Clinical Trial Registry: NCT02447432.