Background Gene vaccines offer attractive rationales for prophylactic as well as therapeutic treatments of type I allergies. DNA and mRNA vaccines have been shown to prevent from allergic sensitization and to counterbalance established allergic immune reactions. Recent advances in gene vaccine manipulation offer additional opportunities for modulation of T helper cell profiles by specific targeting of cellular compartments. Methods DNA vaccines encoding the major birch pollen allergen Bet v 1.0101 were equipped with different leader sequences to shuttle the antigen to lysosomes (LIMP-II), to trigger cellular secretion (hTPA), or to induce proteasomal degradation via forced ubiquitination (ubi). Mice were pre-vaccinated with these constructs and the protective efficacy was tested by subcutaneous Th2-promoting challenges, followed by allergen inhalation. IgG antibody subclass distribution and allergen-specific IgE as well as cytokine profiles from re-stimulated splenocytes and from BALFs were assessed. The cellular composition of BALFs, and lung resistance and compliance were determined. Results Immunization with all targeting variants protected from allergic sensitization, i.e. IgE induction, airway hyperresponsiveness, lung inflammation, and systemic and local Th2 cytokine expression. Surprisingly, protection did not clearly correlate with the induction of a systemic Th1 cytokine profile, but rather with proliferating CD4+ CD25+ FoxP3+ T regulatory cells in splenocyte cultures. Targeting the allergen to proteasomal or lysosomal degradation severely down-regulated antibody induction after vaccination, while T cell responses remained unaffected. Although secretion of antigen promoted the highest numbers of Th1 cells, this vaccine type was the least efficient in suppressing the establishment of an allergic immune response. Conclusion This comparative analysis highlights the modulatory effect of antigen targeting on the resulting immune response, with a special emphasis on prophylactic anti-allergy DNA vaccination. Targeting the antigen to proteasomal or lysosomal degradation reduces the availability of native allergen, thereby rendering the vaccine hypoallergenic without compromising efficacy, an important feature for a therapeutic setting.