Background The burden of influenza is increasingly recognised in Africa. The WHO recommends introducing influenza vaccination to high-risk groups: pregnant women, children <5 years, and the elderly. The Gambia currently has no influenza vaccination policy, but the NASIMMUNE study, a clinical trial of intranasal live attenuated influenza vaccines (LAIV) in young children provided an opportunity to study maternal attitudes towards LAIV for the first time in sub-Saharan Africa. We assess acceptability of LAIV, influenza knowledge and attitudes towards influenza vaccination in Gambian women. Additionally, we investigate predictors of willingness to receive influenza vaccine (intent) in pregnancy or seasonally for children <5. Methods A cross-sectional survey was conducted in Gambian women at two urban health facilities. To assess LAIV acceptability, the exposure group (women whose children had received LAIV during the NASIMMUNE study) were compared to a control group (women whose children were not enrolled in the NASIMMUNE study). Demographics and health belief constructs were analysed as predictors of influenza knowledge and vaccine intent. Findings The exposure group (n = 150) expressed a higher preference for a nasal spray vaccine than an injection compared to the control group (n = 304) (93.3% vs. 34.9%, OR = 26.15, p < 0.0001). Those in the exposure group who preferred the nasal spray found it less distressing, safer or equally safe, and easier or equally easy to give (all p < 0.001) than injections. Influenza knowledge increased with education level (p = 0.006 for higher education vs. none), and varied between sites (p = 0.0005). Vaccine intent was >98%, but no association with influenza knowledge or difference between groups was observed. Various health belief constructs were associated with vaccine intent. Conclusion LAIV acceptability was higher in those with first-hand experience. Influenza vaccine intent was also high. Incorporation of seasonal LAIV into the childhood immunisation schedule in The Gambia would be feasible, particularly if combined with community-based health education.