Background Several studies have found that depressed, post-menopausal females may respond differently to antidepressants compared to pre-menopausal females. The atypical antipsychotic lurasidone, whose mechanism of action differs from SSRIs and other standard antidepressants, was shown in a 6-week randomized, flexible-dose, placebo-controlled study (n=209), to be effective in treating major depressive disorder (MDD) with mixed features (subthreshold hypomanic symptoms). This post-hoc analysis assessed the efficacy of lurasidone in this study by menopausal status. Methods The main outcome measure for this post-hoc analysis was change in MADRS score from baseline to week 6 endpoint for two lurasidone-treated subgroups: presumptive pre-menopausal (<52years) and presumptive post-menopausal (≥52years) patients, compared to placebo treatment, using a mixed-model for repeated-measures analysis, and calculation of the effect size for each subgroup. Additional efficacy assessments included the CGI-S, HAM-A and YMRS. An exploratory analysis was also conducted removing presumptive peri-menopausal women (ages 45–51years) to allow for clearer definition of pre- and post-menopausal status. Results A total of 56 lurasidone-treated and 47 placebo-treated pre-menopausal females, and 17 lurasidone-treated and 25 placebo-treated post-menopausal females were available from the larger study for comparison on key outcome measures. The pre- and post-menopausal subgroups had similar demographic and clinical characteristics at study baseline (other than age), including number of past major depressive episodes as well as depressive and manic symptom severity. Mean daily lurasidone dose was similar for each subgroup during the study. Both the primary and exploratory analyses showed that both lurasidone-treated post-menopausal and pre-menopausal females responded significantly compared to placebo (p=0.016 or less) on the MADRS, and that post-menopausal patients had a numerically larger response (effect size=0.96) than pre-menopausal patients (effect size=0.64). All other secondary outcome measures for lurasidone compared with placebo treatment were significant (p=0.045 or less) for both subgroups. Conclusions In this post-hoc analysis, lurasidone was found to be effective in treating post-menopausal MDD patients with mixed features (subthreshold hypomanic symptoms).