Background Enterocystoplasty is associated with serious complications resulting from the chronic interaction between intestinal epithelium and urine. Composite cystoplasty is proposed as a means of overcoming these complications by substituting intestinal epithelium with tissue-engineered autologous urothelium. Objective To develop a robust surgical procedure for composite cystoplasty and to determine if outcome is improved by transplantation of a differentiated urothelium. Design, setting, and participants Bladder augmentation with in vitro–generated autologous tissues was performed in 11 female Large-White hybrid pigs in a well-equipped biomedical centre with operating facilities. Participants were a team comprising scientists, urologists, a veterinary surgeon, and a histopathologist. Measurements Urothelium harvested by open biopsy was expanded in culture and used to develop sheets of nondifferentiated or differentiated urothelium. The sheets were transplanted onto a vascularised, de-epithelialised, seromuscular colonic segment at the time of bladder augmentation. After removal of catheters and balloon at two weeks, voiding behaviour was monitored and animals were sacrificed at 3 months for immunohistology. Results and limitations Eleven pigs underwent augmentation, but four were lost to complications. Voiding behaviour was normal in the remainder. At autopsy, reconstructed bladders were healthy, lined by confluent urothelium, and showed no fibrosis, mucus, calculi, or colonic regrowth. Urothelial morphology was transitional with variable columnar attributes consistent between native and augmented segments. Bladders reconstructed with differentiated cell sheets had fewer lymphocytes infiltrating the lamina propria, indicating more effective urinary barrier function. Conclusions The study endorses the potential for composite cystoplasty by (1) successfully developing reliable techniques for transplanting urothelium onto a prepared, vascularised, smooth muscle segment and (2) creating a functional urothelium-lined augmentation to overcome the complications of conventional enterocystoplasty.