Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease of unknown origin. The pathological lesions that define AD would be linked to the insidious accumulation of nitrogen, having invaded the brain interstitial fluid (ISF) from the blood via the physiological cycling pool of vascular glucose transporters (GLUT-1). According to this hypothesis, the nitrogen nanobubbles, being chemically inert and actually indestructible for human beings, can not escape from the ISF anymore. They would exert a huge and deleterious pressure against cellular components, especially in microglia and in astrocytes. They could enhance the existing cell oxygen anisotropy, which might enhance the natural bubble nucleation of O 2 - 2 O 2 in cells or in mitochondria. Indeed, with the help of a new symbolic representation for gas nuclei in chemical reactions, the NADPH oxidase–NO system is identified for the first time, as an antibubble biomachinery, able to break O 2 - 2 O 2 bubbles up as it releases superoxide O 2 - . Superoxide is considered as a quantum bubble, which collapses through the reactivity of the gaseous NO radical. Their combination in soluble peroxinitrite provides the change from one state of matter to another, avoiding any risk of a bubble enlargement, and finally avoiding the risk of enzyme crowding or of a bulk pressure variation. However, a bubble is expected to entrap Nitric Oxide (NO), which leads theoretically to a decrease in its bioavailability, and is expected to trigger a guanylyl-cyclase-mediated inflammatory cascade, that could explain the inflammation in AD. In vitro, any increase in the hydrostatic pressure has already been linked to the microtubule disorganization. The amyloid deposits, also known as senile plaques, would behave as a sponge toward ISF nitrogen; Aβ is considered as a foam-stabilizing agent. By taking the shape of cerebral amyloid angiopathy, the amyloid could confine the nitrogen leak from the blood, and progressively insulate the Blood–Brain Barrier against the pollutant. All these theoretical features finally lead to the death of the neurons. The comprehensive statement of the theoretical pro-inflammatory action of inert gases is a real upheaval for the whole medicine.