The thyroid gland, and its associated endocrine hormones, is a growing area of interest in regulatory toxicology due to its important role in metabolism, growth and development. This report presents a review of the toxicology data on chemically complex petroleum streams for thyroid hormone effects. Toxicological summaries and studies from all available published and un-published sources were considered, drawing upon the European REACH regulatory submissions for 19 petroleum streams, with in depth review of 11 individual study reports and 31 published papers on related products or environmental settings. Findings relevant to thyroid pathology or thyroid hormone homeostasis were specifically sought, summarized, and discussed. A total of 349 studies of 28-days or longer duration were considered in the review, including data on mice, rats, rabbits, dogs, humans, and fish. The thyroid was almost invariably not a target organ in these studies. Three rodent studies did find thyroid effects; one on a jet fuel product (JP-8), and two studies on a heavy fuel oil product (F-179). The JP-8 product differs from other fuels due to the presence of additives, and the finding of reduced T4 levels in mice in the study occurred at a dose that is above that expected to occur in environmental settings (e.g. 2000mg/kg). The finding for F-179 involved thyroid inflammation at 10–55mg/kg that co-occurred with liver pathology in rats, indicating a possible secondary effect with questionable relevance to humans. In the few cases where findings did occur, the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) content was higher than in related substances, and, in support of one possible adverse outcome pathway, one in-vitro study reported reduced thyroid peroxidase (TPO) activity with exposure to some PAH compounds (pyrene, benzo(k)fluoranthene, and benzo(e)pyrene). However, it could not be determined from the data available for this review, whether these specific PAH compounds were substantially higher in the JP-8 or F-179 products than in studies in which thyroid effects were not observed. Thus, a few products may carry a weak potential to affect the thyroid at high doses in rodents, possibly through secondary effects on the rodent liver or possibly through a pathway involving the inhibition of TPO by specific members of the PAH family. Human epidemiology evidence found weak and inconsistent effects on the thyroid but without identification of specific chemicals involved. Two studies in petroleum workers, which found a lower rate of morbidity and mortality overall, reported a statistically significant increase in thyroid cancer, but the small number of cases could not exclude confounding variables as possible explanations for the statistical findings. Overall, the available data indicates a low potential for thyroid hormone effects from exposure to petroleum streams, especially when the aromatic content is low. Because regulatory studies for most chemicals do not include detailed thyroid function or receptor studies, it remains possible that subclinical effects on this system may exist that were not detectable using conventional pathology or hormone measurements.