Necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) is a major neonatal health problem that especially affects preterm infants and causes severe morbidity and mortality. Although its pathogenesis is not fully understood, important risk factors include prematurity, oxidative stress, inflammation, and apoptosis. Ankaferd Blood Stopper® (ABS) has antioxidant, antiinflammatory, antimicrobial, antiapoptotic, and wound healing accelerant properties. In this study, we aimed to investigate whether treatment with ABS reduced the severity of NEC in rat pups in an experimental NEC model. Thirty-six newborn Wistar albino rat pups were randomly assigned to the control, NEC + saline, or NEC + ABS groups. NEC was induced by intraperitoneal injection of lipopolysaccharide, feeding with hyperosmolar enteral formula, and exposure to hypoxia/hyperoxia and cold stress. ABS was administered intraperitoneally to the pups in the NEC + ABS group daily starting on day 1 of the study at a dose of 2 ml/kg by diluting 2 ml with saline at a ratio of 1:3. All pups were sacrificed on day 4. The terminal ileum including the proximal colon was removed for histopathological and immunohistochemical examination and biochemical analysis. Macroscopic assessment and intestinal injury scores were lower in NEC + ABS group compared to the NEC + saline group (p < 0.05). Immunohistochemical evaluations of caspase-3, -8, and -9 revealed significantly reduced apoptosis in the NEC + ABS group compared to the NEC + saline group (p = 0.001). Total oxidant status, oxidative stress index, tumor necrosis factor α and interleukin-1β levels, and lipid, protein, and deoxyribonucleic acid oxidation products were significantly lower in the NEC + ABS group compared to NEC + saline group (p < 0.001 for all), while total antioxidant status, glutathione, and superoxide dismutase levels were higher in the NEC + ABS group (p < 0.001, p < 0.001, p = 0.01, respectively). ABS treatment has the potential to effectively reduce the severity of intestinal damage in NEC due to its antioxidant, antiinflammatory, and antiapoptotic properties. Therefore, NEC may be an alternative option for treatment.