Chronically elevated glucocorticoid levels impair cognition and are pro-inflammatory in the brain. Deficiency or inhibition of 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type-1 (11β-HSD1), which converts inactive into active glucocorticoids, protects against glucocorticoid-associated chronic stress- or age-related cognitive impairment. Here, we hypothesised that 11β-HSD1 deficiency attenuates the brain cytokine response to inflammation. Because inflammation is associated with altered energy metabolism, we also examined the effects of 11β-HSD1 deficiency upon hippocampal energy metabolism. Inflammation was induced in 11β-HSD1 deficient (Hsd11b1Del/Del ) and C57BL/6 control mice by intraperitoneal injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). LPS reduced circulating neutrophil and monocyte numbers and increased plasma corticosterone levels equally in C57BL/6 and Hsd11b1Del/Del mice, suggesting a similar peripheral inflammatory response. However, the induction of pro-inflammatory cytokine mRNAs in the hippocampus was attenuated in Hsd11b1Del/Del mice. Principal component analysis of mRNA expression revealed a distinct metabolic response to LPS in hippocampus of Hsd11b1Del/Del mice. Expression of Pfkfb3 and Ldha, key contributors to the Warburg effect, showed greater induction in Hsd11b1Del/Del mice. Consistent with increased glycolytic flux, levels of 3-phosphoglyceraldehyde and dihydroxyacetone phosphate were reduced in hippocampus of LPS injected Hsd11b1Del/Del mice. Expression of Sdha and Sdhb, encoding subunits of succinate dehydrogenase/complex II that determines mitochondrial reserve respiratory capacity, was induced specifically in hippocampus of LPS injected Hsd11b1Del/Del mice, together with increased levels of its product, fumarate. These data suggest 11β-HSD1 deficiency attenuates the hippocampal pro-inflammatory response to LPS, associated with increased capacity for aerobic glycolysis and mitochondrial ATP generation. This may provide better metabolic support and be neuroprotective during systemic inflammation or aging.