Objectives To determine if in singing there is an effect of lung volume on the electroglottographic waveform, and if so, how it varies over the voice range. Study design Eight trained female singers sang the tune “Frère Jacques” in 18 conditions: three phonetic contexts, three dynamic levels, and high or low lung volume. Conditions were randomized and replicated. Methods The audio and EGG signals were recorded in synchrony with signals tracking respiration and vertical larynx position. The first 10 Fourier descriptors of every EGG cycle were computed. These spectral data were clustered statistically, and the clusters were mapped by color into a voice range profile display, thus visualizing the EGG waveform changes under the influence of f o and SPL. The rank correlations and effect sizes of the relationships between relative lung volume and several adduction-related EGG wave shape metrics were similarly rendered on a color scale, in voice range profile-style ʻvoice maps.ʼ Results In most subjects, EGG waveforms varied considerably over the voice range. Within subjects, reproducibility was high, not only across the replications, but also across the phonetic contexts. The EGG waveforms were quite individual, as was the nature of the EGG shape variation across the range. EGG metrics were significantly correlated to changes in lung volume, in parts of the range of the song, and in most subjects. However, the effect sizes of the relative lung volume were generally much smaller than the effects of f o and SPL, and the relationships always varied, even changing polarity from one part of the range to another. Conclusions Most subjects exhibited small, reproducible effects of the relative lung volume on the EGG waveform. Some hypothesized influences of tracheal pull were seen, mostly at the lowest SPLs. The effects were however highly variable, both across the moderately wide f o-SPL range and across subjects. Different singers may be applying different techniques and compensatory behaviors with changing lung volume. The outcomes emphasize the importance of making observations over a substantial part of the voice range, and not only of phonations sustained at a few fundamental frequencies and sound levels.