Background Pregabalin is a well-accepted treatment option for patients with neuropathic pain. However, the therapeutic efficacy of pregabalin for reducing the incidence of spinal surgery to treat leg symptoms in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis remains unknown. The purpose of this study was to analyze the therapeutic efficacy of pregabalin for reducing the incidence of spinal surgery for leg symptoms in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis during the first year of treatment. Methods Consecutive patients diagnosed with lumbar spinal stenosis at our hospital from January to June 2009 were treated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug monotherapy and formed the control group (n = 47; 22 males, 25 females). Patients diagnosed with lumbar spinal stenosis at our hospital between August 2010 and October 2011 were treated with a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug and pregabalin combination therapy and formed the pregabalin group (n = 49; 27 males, 22 females). The proportions of patients who underwent spinal surgery during the first year of treatment were assessed and compared between the two groups using the Mann-Whitney U test. In addition, the periods in which patients decided to undergo spinal surgery were compared using the Kaplan-Meier method. Results Six patients (12.2 %) in the pregabalin group and 22 patients (46.8 %) in the control group underwent spinal surgery during the first year of treatment (P = 0.0035). The period in which patients decided to undergo spinal surgery was significantly delayed in the pregabalin group compared with the control group in those for whom spinal surgery was necessary (P = 0.0128). Conclusions Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug and pregabalin combination therapy may result in a lower incidence of spinal surgery during the first year of treatment or a delayed period before undergoing spinal surgery if necessary compared with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug monotherapy in patients with leg symptoms caused by lumbar spinal stenosis.