[11C]PBR28 is a positron emission tomography radioligand used to examine the expression of the 18 kDa translocator protein (TSPO). TSPO is located in glial cells and can function as a marker for immune activation. Since TSPO is expressed throughout the brain, no true reference region exists. For this reason, an arterial input function is required for accurate quantification of [11C]PBR28 binding and the most common outcome measure is the total distribution volume (VT). Notably, VT reflects both specific binding and non-displaceable binding. Therefore, estimates of specific binding, such as binding potential (e.g. BPND) and specific distribution volume (VS) should theoretically be more sensitive to underlying differences in TSPO expression. It is unknown, however, if unbiased and accurate estimates of these outcome measures are obtainable for [11C]PBR28. The Simultaneous Estimation (SIME) method uses time-activity-curves from multiple brain regions with the aim to obtain a brain-wide estimate of the non-displaceable distribution volume (VND), which can subsequently be used to improve the estimation of BPND and VS. In this study we evaluated the accuracy of SIME-derived VND, and the reliability of resulting estimates of specific binding for [11C]PBR28, using a combination of simulation experiments and in vivo studies in healthy humans. The simulation experiments, based on data from 54 unique [11C]PBR28 examinations, showed that VND values estimated using SIME were both precise and accurate. Data from a pharmacological competition challenge (n = 5) showed that SIME provided VND values that were on average 19% lower than those obtained using the Lassen plot, but similar to values obtained using the Likelihood-Estimation of Occupancy technique. Test-retest data (n = 11) showed that SIME-derived VS values exhibited good reliability and precision, while larger variability was observed in SIME-derived BPND values. The results support the use of SIME for quantifying specific binding of [11C]PBR28, and suggest that VS can be used in complement to the conventional outcome measure VT. Additional studies in patient cohorts are warranted.