Introduction Inhalation of antigen in atopic asthma induces early (EAR) and late asthmatic responses (LARs), inflammatory cell infiltration and airways hyperresponsiveness (AHR). Previously, we have established a protocol of sensitisation and subsequent ovalbumin (Ova) inhalation challenge in guinea-pigs which induced these 4 features (Smith & Broadley, 2007). However, the responses of guinea-pigs to Ova challenge have recently declined, producing no LAR or AHR and diminished EAR and cells. By making cumulative modifications to the protocol, we sought to restore these features. Methods Guinea-pigs were sensitised with Ova (i.p. 100 or 150μg) on days 1 and 5 or days 1, 4 and 7 and challenged with nebulised Ova (100 or 300μg/ml, 1h) on day 15. Airway function was measured in conscious guinea-pigs by whole-body plethysmography to record specific airway conductance (sGaw). Airway responsiveness to aerosolized histamine (0.3mM) was determined before and 24h after Ova challenge. Bronchoalveolar lavage was performed for total and differential inflammatory cell counts. Lung sections were stained for counting of eosinophils. Results Lack of AHR and LAR with the original protocol was confirmed. Increasing the Ova challenge concentration from 100 to 300μg/ml restored AHR and eosinophils and increased the peak of the EAR. Increasing the number of sensitisation injections from 2 to 3 did not alter the responses. Increasing the Ova sensitisation concentration from 100 to 150μg significantly increased total cells, particularly eosinophils. A LAR was revealed and lymphocytes and eosinophils increased when either the Al(OH)3 concentration was increased or the duration between the final sensitisation injection and Ova challenge was extended from 15 to 21days. Discussion This study has shown that declining allergic responses to Ova in guinea-pigs could be restored by increasing the sensitisation and challenge conditions. It has also demonstrated an important dissociation between EAR, LAR, AHR and inflammation.