Rationale and Objectives The purpose of this work is to determine if the speed of sound value of a breast cyst can aid in the clinical management of breast masses. Breast macrocysts are defined as fluid-filled tissue masses >1 cm in diameter and are thought to be aberrations of normal development and involution, often associated with apocrine metaplasia. The benign natural history of breast cysts is well known, and it is important to obtain high specificity in breast imaging to avoid unnecessary biopsies in women who have benign diseases, particularly those with dense breast tissue. Transmission ultrasound is a tomographic imaging modality that generates high-resolution, 3D speed of sound maps that could be used to identify breast tissue types and act as a biomarker to differentiate lesions. We performed this study to investigate the microanatomy of macrocysts observed using transmission ultrasound, as well as assess the relationship of speed of sound to the physical and biochemical parameters of cyst fluids. Materials and Methods Cyst fluid samples were obtained from 37 patients as part of a case-collection study for ultrasound imaging of the breast. The speed of sound of each sample was measured using a quantitative transmission ultrasound scanner in vivo. Electrolytes, protein, cholesterol, viscosity, and specific gravity were also measured (in the aspirated cyst fluid) to assess their relationship to the speed of sound values obtained during breast imaging. Results We found positive correlations between viscosity and cholesterol (r = 0.71) and viscosity and total protein × cholesterol (r = 0.78). Additionally, we performed direct cell counts on cyst fluids and confirmed a positive correlation of number of cells with speed of sound (r = 0.74). The speed of sound of breast macrocysts, as observed using transmission ultrasound, correlated with the cytological features of intracystic cell clumps. Conclusion On the basis of our work with speed as a classifier, we propose a spectrum of breast macrocysts from fluid-filled to highly cellular. Our results suggest high-speed cysts are mature macrocysts with high cell counts and many cellular clumps that correlate with cyst microanatomy as seen by transmission ultrasound. Further studies are needed to confirm our findings and to assess the clinical value of speed of sound measurements in breast imaging using transmission ultrasound.