This article reports a historical study of factors influencing the achievement of clinical preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) in 1990, 22 years after its first demonstration in animals. During the 1970s, research on PGD continued in large farm animals, but serious interest in human PGD was not evident until 1986. First, interest in PGD during the 1970s waned with the advent of prenatal testing, which for gynaecologists was clinically more familiar, technically simpler and ethically less challenging than IVF. Indeed, IVF was viewed with widespread suspicion until the first IVF births in 1978. Second, interest in clinical PGD was stimulated by the UK Parliamentary reaction against human embryo research that greeted the Warnock Report in 1984. This hostility led scientists to initiate a pro-research campaign, further galvanized in 1985 by MP Enoch Powell’s bid to ban such research. However, while Powell abhorred embryo research, he approved of PGD, a stance that divided the anti-research lobby. Accordingly, the campaigners for research emphasized that it was needed to achieve PGD. Powell demanded evidence of such projects and PGD research increased from 1986. It is concluded that UK political debates on embryo research played a critical role in stimulating the achievement of clinical PGD. Human pregnancies following preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) for embryo sex were announced in 1990, 22 years after the technique was pioneered in animals. PGD in humans required not only technological advances, such as IVF and sensitive diagnostic tests, but also the motivation to develop and apply them. Our historical analysis shows that, although research on PGD continued in large farm animals during the 1970s, and techniques of the required sensitivity were developed on mouse embryo models, interest in clinical PGD was not evident until 1986. Two factors stimulated this sudden change in motivation. First, interest in PGD was depressed during the 1970s by the advent of prenatal diagnostic techniques, which for gynaecologists were clinically, technically and ethically less challenging than IVF. IVF was then regarded with a suspicion that only started to wane in the early 1980s following the first IVF births. Second, the UK Parliamentary reaction against human embryo research that greeted the Warnock Report in 1984 provided a positive stimulus to clinical PGD by prompting scientists to form a pro-research lobby, which was further galvanized in early 1985 by MP Enoch Powell’s almost-successful bid to ban human embryo research. We show that while Powell abhorred embryo research, he approved of PGD, a stance that fractured the unity of the anti-research lobby. Accordingly, the pro-research lobby emphasized that embryo research was needed to achieve PGD. Powell demanded evidence of such projects, thereby, we argue, stimulating PGD research from 1986. Our evidence shows that UK political debates about PGD played a critical role in stimulating the achievement of PGD clinically.