Transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis bacilli from one individual to another is the basis of the disease process. While considerable emphasis has been placed on the role of host mechanisms of resistance in establishing or preventing new infection, far less has been expended on understanding possible factors operative at the bacterial level. In this study we established a panel of clinical isolates of M. tuberculosis strains obtained from the Western Cape region of South Africa, each of which had been carefully tracked in terms of their degree of transmission in the community. Each of the panel were used to infect guinea pigs with 15–20 bacilli by aerosol exposure and the course of the infection then determined. Strains with different degrees of transmission could not be distinguished in terms of their capacity to grow in the main target organs of infected animals. However, rather surprisingly, while strains with no evidence of transmission [NOT] in general caused moderate to severe lung damage, this parameter in animals infected with highly transmitted [HT] strains was mostly mild. In terms of TH1 immunity these signals were strongest in these latter animals, as was IL-17 gene expression, whereas minimal signals for regulatory molecules including IL-10 and FoxP3 were seen across the entire panel. In terms of T cell numbers, responses of both CD4 and CD8 were both far faster and far higher in animals infected with the HT strains. At the gene expression level we observed a major three-fold difference [both up and down] between NOT and HT strains, but in terms of proteins of key interest only a few [including PD-L1 and HIF-3] showed major differences between the two groups. Overall, it was apparent that NOT strains were far more inflammatory that HT strains, and appeared to trigger a much larger number of genes, possibly explaining the observed damage to the lungs and progressive pathology. In contrast, the HT strains, while equally virulent, were more immunogenic and developed much stronger T cell responses, while keeping lung damage to a minimum. Hence, in terms of trying to explain the capacity of these strains to cause transmission, these results are clearly paradoxical.