Background Altered enteroendocrine hormone responses are widely believed to underlie the beneficial effects of bariatric surgery in type 2 diabetes. While elevated postprandial glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) is considered one of the mediators, increased postprandial glucagon levels have recently been implicated. Objectives We investigated hormonal responses in lean patients after prophylactic total gastrectomy (PTG), as a model of Roux-en-Y gastric bypass without the confounding effects of obesity or massive weight loss. Setting University hospital, United Kingdom. Methods Ten participants after PTG and 9 healthy volunteers were recruited for oral glucose tolerance tests. Plasma glucose, insulin, GLP-1, peptide YY, glucose-dependent insulinotropic-polypeptide, glucagon, oxyntomodulin, glucagon(1-61), and glicentin levels were assessed using immunoassays and/or mass spectrometry. Results PTG participants exhibited accelerated plasma glucose appearance, followed, in 3 of 10 cases, by hypoglycemia (<3 mM glucose). Plasma GLP-1, peptide YY, glucose-dependent insulinotropic-polypeptide, glicentin, and oxyntomodulin responses were elevated, and glucagon appeared to rise in PTG participants when measured with a glucagon-specific enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. We revisited the specificity of this assay, and demonstrated significant cross-reactivity with glicentin and oxyntomodulin at concentrations observed in PTG plasma. Reassessment of glucagon with the same assay using a modified protocol, and by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, demonstrated suppression of glucagon secretion after oral glucose tolerance tests in both PTG and control cohorts. Conclusions Care should be taken when assessing glucagon levels in the presence of elevated plasma levels of other proglucagon products. Substantial elevation of GLP-1 and insulin responses after PTG likely contribute to the observed hypoglycemia, and mirror similar hormone levels and complications observed in bariatric weight loss patients.