Introduction Obstructive sleep apnea, a common disease, is usually complicated by insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Adipokine is considered to play an important role in the development of insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes mellitus in obstructive sleep apnea. Objective To assess whether secreted frizzled-related protein 5, a new adipokine, is involved in untreated obstructive sleep apnea patients. Methods Seventy-six subjects with obstructive sleep apnea and thirty-three control subjects without obstructive sleep apnea were recruited and matched in terms of body mass index and age. The fasting secreted frizzled-related protein 5 plasma concentration was tested using ELISA. In addition, the correlation between secreted frizzled-related protein 5 and the homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance was obtained. Multiple linear regression analysis models with stepwise selection were performed to determine the independent associations between various factors and secreted frizzled-related protein 5. Results Plasma secreted frizzled-related protein 5 levels were significantly lower in the obstructive sleep apnea group than in the control group (obstructive sleep apnea group: 28.44±13.25ng/L; control group: 34.16±13.51ng/L; p =0.023). In addition, secreted frizzled-related protein 5 was negatively correlated with homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance but positively correlated with the mean and lowest oxygen saturation with or without adjusting for age, gender, body mass index, neck circumference, waist circumference and waist-to-hip ratio. The multiple linear regression analysis showed there was an independent negative association between secreted frizzled-related protein 5 and homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance. Conclusion Secreted frizzled-related protein 5 was involved in obstructive sleep apnea and the decrease in secreted frizzled-related protein 5 was directly proportional to the severity of obstructive sleep apnea. There was an independent negative correlation between homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance and secreted frizzled-related protein 5 in the obstructive sleep apnea group. Secreted frizzled-related protein 5 might be a therapeutic target for insulin resistance in obstructive sleep apnea.