Summary The presence of auditory middle latency evoked responses allows us to make an evaluation of the peripheral and central auditory system integrity, as well as the nucleus and auditory ways existing until the level of the thalamus-cortical region and primary auditory cortex. Aim: Our objective is to evaluate the presence or not of this numerous peaks, as well as, their latencies and intervals and extend to make a standardizing study. Way of study: Contemporary study of Coorte with transversal cut and the outline was quantitative, descriptive e non experimental. Material and method: Studying several peaks, positives and negatives, caused by the middle latency auditory potentials, in a population of young adults individuals, ranging from 18 to 30 years old, from both genders, with normal hearing. It was used a monoauricular resonant stimulation and a capitation, separately, in both cerebral hemispheres, with surface electrodes. Result: In this research was verified that the analyzed crossings did not present statistically significant results and it was stipulated a pattern from the obtained results. Based on the non-statistical difference found we can affirm that to the Po waves was obtained respectively an average and standard deviation of 12,09 and 1,84; for Na 17,91 and 2,60; for Pa 29,41 and 5,66; for Nb 41,43 and 8,89; to for 51,44 ms e 12,63 and finally to the interval Na-Pa 11,52 and 4,99. Conclusion: 1- The presence of the defluxions Po, Na, and Pa was verified in all the registers, whereas the defluxions Nb and Pb were absent in only 06 registers. 2- By having these registers, we evaluated that the inveiglement of these defluxions can be used as a reliable method to detect the average latency of the auditory potentials, by electrical generated activities, possibly in sites located in the thalamus-cortical area, evoked by sonorous stimulation. From that point, we establish a pattern of responses for young ones with normal hearing, helping us with future studies in patients with alterations in the hearing system.