Introduction Sudden hearing loss is a significant otologic emergency. Previous studies have revealed a coexistence of sudden hearing loss with chronic inflammation. The predictive importance of C-reactive protein/albumin values as a prognostic factor has been shown in various inflammatory and tumoral conditions. Objectives The aim of this study was to determine whether the C-reactive protein/albumin ratio in sudden hearing loss can be used for prognostic purposes and whether there is a relationship between the neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio and the C-reactive protein/albumin ratio. Methods A retrospective examination was made of 40 patients diagnosed with idiopathic sudden hearing loss and a control group of 45 healthy subjects. The pure tone averages of all the patients were determined on first presentation and repeated at 3 months after the treatment. The patients were separated into 2 groups according to the response to treatment. The neutrophil/lynphocyte ratio and the C-reactive protein/albumin ratios were calculated from the laboratory tests. Results The patients included 16 females and 24 males with a mean age of 44.1±14.2 years and the control group was composed of 23 females and 22 males with a mean age of 42.2±13.8 years. The mean C-reactive protein/albumin ratio was 0.95±0.47 in the patient group and 0.74±0.13 in the control group. The difference was statistically significant (p =0.009). The mean C-reactive protein/albumin ratio was 0.79±0.12 in the response to treatment group and 1.27±0.72 in the non-response group, with no significant difference determined between the groups (p =0.418). The mean neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio was 3.52±3.00 in the response to treatment group and 4.90±4.60 in the non-response group, with no statistically significant difference determined between the groups (p =0.261). Conclusion C-reactive/albumin ratio was significantly higher in patients with sudden hearing loss than in the control group. Although C-reactive protein/albumin ratio was found to be lower in sudden hearing loss patients who responded to treatment compared to those who did not, the difference between two groups was not statistically significant.