Introduction There is evidence pointing to the importance of the evaluation of musical perception through objective and subjective instruments. In Brazil, there is a shortage of instruments that evaluates musical perception. Objective To develop an instrument to evaluate the recognition of traditional Brazilian melodies and investigate the performance of children with typical hearing. Methods The study was carried out after approval of the research ethics committee (1.198.607). The instrument was developed in software format with website access, using the languages PHP 5.5.12, Javascript, Cascade style sheets and “HTML5”; database “MYSQL 5.6.17” on the “Apache 2.4.9” server. Fifteen melodies of Brazilian folk songs were recorded in piano synthesized timbre, with 12 seconds per melody reproduction and four second intervals between them. A total of 155 schooled children, aged eight to 11 years, of both sexes, with typical hearing participated in the study. The test was performed in a silent room with sound stimuli amplified by a sound box at 65dBNA, positioned at 0 azimuth, and at one meter from the participant, the notebook was used for children to play with on the screen on the title and illustration of the melody they recognized they were listening to. The responses were recorded on their own database. Results The instrument titled “Evaluation of recognition of traditional melodies in children” can be run on various devices (computers, notebooks, tablets, mobile phones) and operating systems (Windows, Macintosh, Android, Linux). Access: http://192.185.216.17/ivan/home/login.php by login and password. The most easily recognized melody was “Cai, cai balão” (89%) and the least recognized was “Capelinha de melão” (25.2%). The average time to perform the test was 3′15″. Conclusion The development and application of the software proved effective for the studied population. This instrument may contribute to the improvement of protocols for the evaluation of musical perception in children with hearing aid and/or cochlear implants users.