Introduction Targeted needs assessment which includes identifying the needs of learners is a key step of program development. However, this step is commonly underestimated in postgraduate medical education programs, including otolaryngology residency training. Determining the needs of otolaryngologists may help educators to design more purposeful continuing medical education training programs. Furthermore, needs of specialists may provide a clearer insight about effectiveness of the residency programs in that specialty. Objective To determine training needs of otolaryngology specialists and to identify deficiencies in otolaryngology residency training programs. Methods Seventy-eight otolaryngology specialists, who completed all data gathering forms properly, were included in this descriptive, cross-sectional study. Demographic data of the participants were collected. Training needs of the participants were determined in seven basic areas of otolaryngology via two-round Delphi method. The basic areas were otology–neurotology, rhinology, laryngology, head and neck surgery, pediatric otolaryngology, sleep disorders and facial plastic surgery. Additionally, we asked an open-ended question to investigate the reasons why the participants perceived themselves incompetent and undereducated, or why they needed further training in some of the basic otolaryngology areas. Results Facial plastic surgery, otology-neurotology and head and neck surgery were the most cited training areas in the needs assessment. Training needs differed according to experience and place of work. Financial expectations, deficiencies in residency training, regression in knowledge and skills, and special interest were effective determinants on decisions of the participants while determining their training needs. Conclusion Otolaryngologists need further training in some areas of their field due to different reasons. Determining these areas and reasons will help in designing more effective continuous medical education activities and residency training programs in otolaryngology.