Introduction Septal deviations might cause nasal obstruction and negative impact on the quality of life of individuals. The efficacy of septoplasty for treatment of septal deviation and the predictors of satisfactory surgical outcomes remain controversial. Technical variability, heterogeneity of research samples and absence of a solid tool for clinical evaluation are the main hindrances to the establishment of reliable statistical data regarding the procedure. Objective To evaluate the clinical improvements in the disease-specific quality-of-life between patients submitted to septoplasty with bilateral outfracture of the inferior turbinate under sedation and local anesthesia in a tertiary hospital and to assess possible clinical–epidemiological variables associated with functional outcome. Methods Fifty-two patients consecutively submitted to septoplasty with bilateral outfracture of the inferior turbinate for treatment of nasal obstruction filled in forms regarding clinical and epidemiological information during enrollment and had their symptom objectively quantified using the Nose Obstruction Symptom Evaluation (NOSE) scale preoperatively and one and three months after the procedure. Statistical analysis aimed to determine overall and stratified surgical outcomes and to investigate correlations between the clinical–epidemiological variables with the scores obtained. Results Statistically significant improvement in the preoperative NOSE questionnaire compared to the scores obtained three months after surgery was demonstrated (p <0.001, T-Wilcoxon), with strong correlation between the preoperative score and the postoperative improvement during this period (r =−0.614, p <0.001, Spearman). After one month, patients reached in average 87.15% of the result obtained at the study termination. Smokers and patients with rhinitis and/or pulmonary comorbidity showed increased average preoperative NOSE scores, although without statistical significance (p >0.05). Gender, age, history of rhinitis and presence of pulmonary comorbidity did not influence significantly surgical outcomes (p >0.05). Smokers presented greater reduction in NOSE scores during the study (p =0.043, U-Mann–Whitney). Conclusion Septoplasty with bilateral outfracture of the inferior turbinate has proven to significantly improve disease-specific quality-of-life and this favorable outcome seems to occur precociously.