Introduction The first and one of the most important steps in facial plastic surgery is accurate preoperative facial analysis and recording of data that may help the surgeon to check the outcomes of his/her techniques, promoting a surgeon's professional development. Objective To evaluate the esthetic outcomes of external septorhinoplasty relevant to ethnic facial harmony and to investigate the relationship of the columellar incision scar with the type of skin and columellar incision type in a Turkish population. Methods In total, 28 consecutive adult male patients with a mean age of 32.14±10.66 years (range: 18–61 years) were included the study. Primary outcomes were preoperative and postoperative photogrammetric facial analyses of the patients including measurement of nasofrontal angle, nasolabial angle and nasal projection ratios (Gode) assessed according to the data derived from the Rhinobase program. Results were compared to facial proportions of the Turkish population. Columellar incision scar scores related to the Fitzpatrick skin type classification of the patients and columellar incision types used for the external approach were secondary outcomes of the study. Results Mean preoperative and postoperative nasofrontal angles were 148.04°±8.18° and 144.50°±7.15°, respectively, while mean preoperative and postoperative nasolabial angles were 87.59°±14.01° and 98.50°±9.71°, respectively. Mean preoperative and postoperative nasal tip projection ratios were 0.56±0.05 and 0.60±0.06, respectively. The differences between pre- and postoperative measurements were all significantly different and were in accordance with Turkish nasal harmony. Columellar inverted “V” incisions were performed in 15 (53.6%) patients while “V” incisions were used in 13 (46.4%) patients. Fitzpatrick skin Type 4 was seen in 46.42% of the patients, Fitzpatrick Type 3 in 46.42% and Fitzpatrick Type 2 in 7.14% of the patients. No significant difference was seen between columellar scar scores according to skin type and columellar incision type used for external septorhinoplasty. Conclusions This study demonstrated that outcomes for nasofrontal angle, nasolabial angle and nasal tip projection ratios analyzed using the Rhinobase program in patients who underwent external septorhinoplasty were similar to reference values for the Turkish population.