Introduction Previous reports indicated that middle ear surgery might partially improve tinnitus after surgery. However, until now, no influencing factor has been determined for tinnitus outcome after middle ear surgery. Objective The purpose of this study was to investigate the association between preoperative air-bone gap and tinnitus outcome after tympanoplasty type I. Methods Seventy-five patients with tinnitus who had more than 6 months of symptoms of chronic otitis media on the ipsilateral side that were refractory to medical treatment were included in this study. All patients were evaluated through otoendoscopy, pure tone/speech audiometer, questionnaire survey using the visual analog scale and the tinnitus handicap inventory for tinnitus symptoms before and 6 months after tympanoplasty. The influence of preoperative bone conduction, preoperative air-bone-gap, and postoperative air-bone-gap on tinnitus outcome after the operation was investigated. Results and conclusion The patients were divided into two groups based on preoperative bone conduction of less than 25dB (n =50) or more than 25dB (n =25). The postoperative improvement of tinnitus in both groups showed statistical significance. Patients whose preoperative air-bone-gap was less than 15dB showed no improvement in postoperative tinnitus using the visual analog scale (p =0.889) and the tinnitus handicap inventory (p =0.802). However, patients whose preoperative air-bone-gap was more than 15dB showed statistically significant improvement in postoperative tinnitus using the visual analog scale (p <0.01) and the tinnitus handicap inventory (p =0.016). Postoperative change in tinnitus showed significance compared with preoperative tinnitus using visual analog scale (p =0.006). However, the correlation between reduction in the visual analog scale score and air-bone-gap (p =0.202) or between reduction in tinnitus handicap inventory score and air-bone-gap (p =0.290) was not significant. We suggest that the preoperative air-bone-gap can be a predictor of tinnitus outcome after tympanoplasty in chronic otitis media with tinnitus.