Introduction Fine needle aspiration biopsy is a valuable tool in preoperative evaluation of head and neck tumors. However, its accuracy in management of salivary gland tumors is debatable. Objective We aimed to investigate the efficacy and the accuracy of fine needle aspiration biopsy in parotid gland tumors. Methods Patients who underwent parotidectomy between January 2008 and June 2017 due to parotid gland tumor were examined retrospectively. Patients with both preoperative fine needle aspiration biopsy and postoperative surgical pathologies were included. Preoperative fine needle aspiration biopsy was categorized as benign, malignant or suspicious for malignancy. Surgical pathology was grouped as benign or malignant. Surgical pathology was compared with fine needle aspiration biopsy, and sensitivity, specificity, accuracy and agreement between both tests were investigated. Results 217 cases were evaluated and 23 cases were excluded because the fine needle aspiration biopsy diagnosis was non-diagnostic or unavailable. 194 cases were included. The mean age of the patients was 47.5±15.88 (7–82). There were 157 benign, 37 malignant cases in fine needle aspiration biopsy, 165 benign and 29 malignant cases in surgical pathology. The most common benign tumor was pleomorphic adenoma (43.3%), and malignant tumor was mucoepidermoid carcinoma (4.13%). The diagnostic accuracy for fine needle aspiration biopsy when detecting malignancy was 86.52%. Sensitivity and specificity were 68.96% and 89.63% respectively. Positive predictive value was 54.05% and negative predictive value was 94.23%. There was moderate agreement between fine needle aspiration biopsy and surgical pathology (κ =0.52). The sensitivity was 54.54% in tumors less than 2cm while 77.77% in larger tumors. In tumors extending to the deep lobe, sensitivity was 80%. Conclusion Fine needle aspiration biopsy is an important diagnostic tool for evaluating parotid gland tumors. It is more accurate in detecting benign tumors. In tumors greater than 2cm and extending to the deep lobe, the sensitivity of fine needle aspiration biopsy is high. The use of fine needle aspiration biopsy in conjunction with clinical and radiological evaluation may help to reduce false positive and false negative results.