Introduction Chronic rhinosinusitis is a broad clinical syndrome characterized by mucosal inflammation of the nose and paranasal sinuses. In order for the paranasal sinuses to maintain their physiological functions; the ostiomeatal complex drainage pathways must be open. Surgical procedures are an important treatment option in patients who do not respond adequately to medical treatment. Although the methods and instruments used in functional endoscopic sinus surgery have continued to improve in recent years, the scar tissue formed during operation disrupts the drainage of the sinuses and reduces postoperative success. The natural ostiodilatation method, which is performed by balloon sinoplasty method, has become more and more popular in recent years. Objectives To compare the technique of balloon sinoplasty with the classical functional endoscopic sinus surgery method by considering the severity of chronic sinusitis on the same patient. Methods Total of 61 chronic sinusitis patients was included in the study. Paranasal sinus tomography of the patients was taken and according to the Lund–Mackay scoring, chronic sinusitis levels were determined. Cases were divided into two groups: Group 1 (severe chronic sinusitis group) and Group 2 (mild chronic sinusitis). Results There was no statistically significant difference in the results of comparison of sinuses which underwent balloon sinoplasty and classical functional endoscopic sinus surgery in Group 2 after Lund–Mackay scores. However in Group 1, the results of the comparison of postoperative Lund–Mackay scores of the balloon sinoplasty and the classical endoscopic operation were statistically significantly lower than those of the face half operated with the classical functional endoscopic sinus surgery. Conclusion The success of balloon sinoplasty in patients with mild sinusitis is the same as in classic functional endoscopic sinus surgery. However, as the severity of sinusitis increases, the efficacy of balloon sinoplasty decreases.