Introduction Cervical vestibular evoked myogenic potentials (cVEMP) can assess the integrity of the inferior vestibular nerve thereby promising to be a useful tool in the audiological test battery to diagnose vestibular schwannoma. Objective To ascertain the utility of cVEMP in diagnosis of vestibular schwannoma in conjunction with the ABR and to evaluate whether the size of lesion has any effect on the cVEMP measures. Methods Case-files of 15 known cases of vestibular schwannoma whose pure tone audiometry, auditory brainstem response (ABR), cVEMP and radiological investigation findings were available, were included in the study. Patients were categorised as large or small tumours based on the size. The absolute and inter-peak latencies of ABR, amplitudes of waves V and I, and inter-aural latency difference of wave V of ABR; and latency of P1 and N1 of cVEMP and amplitude of P1–N1 complex were considered in the study. Results There were eight large and nine small tumours. All the patients with large tumours showed significant severity of hearing loss whereas only three out of nine patients with small tumours showed severe to profound deafness in the affected ear. The rest showed hearing status ranging from normal hearing sensitivity to moderate hearing loss. Most of the patients with large tumours showed complete absence of ABR in the affected ears with no identifiable wave-peaks. ABR in small tumours exhibited delayed III–I and delayed V–I interpeak latency interval (IPL). Four out of five patients with large unilateral tumours revealed contralateral effects of reduced amplitude or absence of cVEMP. On the contrary, six out of eight unilateral small tumours showed a normal cVEMP response in the contralateral ear. Both the patients with NF2 in the present study demonstrated cVEMP abnormalities. Conclusion ABR and cVEMP, when used in combination, can be of immense use in identification of neuro-otologic conditions such as vestibular schwannoma and bilateral tumours in NF2. In the evaluation of unilateral vestibular schwannoma, abnormal contralateral findings of cVEMP and ABR are strongly indicative of the tumour size >2.5cm. In unilateral severe to profound loss wherein ABR in poorer ear cannot give information of site-of-lesion, cVEMP can help in the differentiation.