Introduction The key to successful treatment of OSAS is to individually tailor such treatment. Thus, it is very important to determine the severity of OSAS, its pattern, and the extent of collapse, by gender, age, and BMI. Objective The objective of the study was to understand the characteristics of obstructive sleep apnea in postmenopausal women by comparing postmenopausal and premenopausal subjects, and men, using DISE. We hope that our work will help the medical community to consult on, diagnose, and treat OSAS more effectively. Methods A total of 273 patients (195 males and 78 females) diagnosed with OSAS were enrolled. Female patients were divided into pre-menopausal (n =41) and post-menopausal patients (n =37). The group of post-menopausal female patients was matched with a group of male patients with similar age and body mass index (BMI). DISE findings were compared between pre-menopausal female patients and post-menopausal female patients, and also between post-menopausal female patients and male patients matched for age and BMI. Results Upon PSG examination, post-menopausal patients (who had a significantly higher BMI than did pre-menopausal patients; 25.6kg/m2 vs. 23.5kg/m2; p =0.019) tended to have a higher AHI and a lower lowest SaO2, but the differences did not attain statistical significance. With DISE analysis, post-menopausal female patients showed higher values in all obstruction sites, with significantly higher value in lateral diameter of retropalatal (1.49 vs. 0.90; p =0.001) and retrolingual levels (1.14 vs. 0.61; p =0.003) compared to pre-menopausal females patients. Post-menopausal female patients showed significantly more retrolingual collapse (antero-posterior, AP, p ≤0.0001, and lateral diameter, p =0.042) in the lower BMI group (BMI<25) and more concentric retropalatal collapse (lateral diameter, p =0.017 and tonsillar obstruction, p =0.003) in higher BMI group (BMI≥25) than BMI and age matched male patients. Conclusion Post-menopausal female patients showed a different pattern of airway obstruction compared to pre-menopausal female patients and male patients matched for age and BMI based on DISE findings.