Summary Introduction: An Antrochoanal polyp, or Killian’s polyp is a benign solitary polypoid lesion that affects mainly children and young adults. Studies demonstrate that Killin’s polyp generally represents 4-6% of all nasal polyps. However, in the pediatric population this percentage reaches 33%. It originates from a hypertrophy of the mucous membrane on the maxillary sinus antrum, and it grows for unknown reasons, through the maxillary sinus ostium towards the nasal cavity and the choana - the posterior portion of the pharynx. Aim: To evaluate the result of the surgical treatment on patients assisted in the Department of Otorhinolaryngology of the Walter Cantídio University Hospital - Medical School of the Federal University of Ceará, mainly on the surgical technique employed and the efficacy of each technique in controlling the disease. Materials and methods: Retrospective study, accomplished through a chart analysis from the patients submitted to polypectomy because of Killian’s polyps or other nasal polyps, operated from March 1st, 1991 to April 30th of 2001, in the Department of Otorhinolaryngology of the Medical School of the Walter Cantídio University Hospital of the Federal University of Ceará. Results: Nine patient (56.6%) were males and 7 (43.8%) were females. Eleven (68.75%) patients were between 8 and 20 years of age. Predominant symptoms were unilateral nasal obstruction (81.3%) and purulent rhinorrhoea (43.8%). The most common procedure employed was the combined approach: external and endonasal, in 87.5% of the cases. Antrochoanal polyp removal procedure accounted for 21.6% of all the surgical procedures accomplished in the same period for the removal of nasal polyps. Postoperative recurrence was of 12.5%. Conclusions: Antrochoanal polyp was an affection that prevailed among children and young adults. The combined external and endonasal approach was the one most used. Despite maxillary sinus approach to the polyp origin, postoperative recurrence is a possibility.