Introduction Healing is a process that restores the physical integrity of body structures. It is a dynamic, complex, multicellular process that involves the extracellular matrix, cytokines, blood cells, and growth factors. Growth factors are proteins that activate and stimulate cell proliferation through the activation of angiogenesis, mitogenesis, and gene transcription, accelerating the healing process. Objective To assess the influence of growth factors on the healing process of wounds made on the backs of female rats compared to the control wound, through macro and microscopy. Methods This study used 45 female Wistar rats, in which three wounds were made on the back. The first was the control wound, the second received epithelial growth factor injection, and the third received a combination of factors. Macroscopic and microscopic assessments were performed on the third, seventh, and 15th days of the experiment. For microscopic analysis, hematoxylin–eosin staining was utilized to assess the inflammatory process; vimentin, for assessment of blood vessels and fibroblasts, and Sirius Red for collagen assessment. Results In the macroscopic assessment, the use of growth factors resulted in faster healing and decrease of granulation tissue on days seven and 15; (80.31% reduction in the control wound vs. 83.24% in the epithelial wound vs. 100% in the mixed wound). Utilizing microscopy, at the three stages of the experiment, there were no significant differences between the three wounds; however, when comparing the day of euthanization for each type of wound, there was a favorable outcome for epithelial and mixed wounds (between the third vs. 15th day, p <0.001, and in the comparison of the seventh vs. 15th day; p =0.002 and p =0.001 for epithelial and mixed wounds, respectively) with a higher number of fibroblasts, angiogenesis, and collagen type I. Conclusion The use of growth factors accelerates healing, stimulates greater angiogenic activity, and accelerates fibroplasia and collagen maturation.