Introduction Patients that are complaining from tinnitus but have normal hearing comprise an uncommon group and there is rare literature about them. Deficiency in B-complex vitamins has been shown to result in tinnitus and supplementation may improve the symptom which means manipulation of cochlear status. Distortion Product Otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs) used frequently to assess cochlear status. Objectives The uses of DPOAE changing amplitude as a parameter to estimate effect of vitamin B complex on changing the severity of tinnitus in patients with tinnitus only in comparison to patients have tinnitus with Sensory Neural Hearing Loss (SNHL) and a control group. Methods Prospective observational cohort study was performed in AL-Karama Teaching Hospital as a secondary medical care center, from 01/01/2012 to 31/12/2016. A three groups had been evaluated clinically and by OAE device (ECHOLAB) to study the DPOAE changing amplitude before and after one month of supplementation of B-complex vitamins to 25 patients in study group (1) have (tinnitus only) and also to 25 patients in study group (2) have (Tinnitus + SNHL) but leaving control group who were a 25 medical staff (No Tinnitus and nor SNHL) without treatment. Results It has been found that among Study group 1 (patients had Tinnitus only), Study group 2 (patients had Tinnitus + SNHL) and the control group: 16 patients (44%), P-value = 0.000 HS; 28 patients (78%) P-value = 0.000 HS; and 0% respectively, they had low Amplitude of DPOAE recorded by OAE device (ECHOLAB). After one month from treatment with Neurobine ampules for study group 1& 2 but not control group (whom receive no treatment), those who got clinical improvement + increase Amplitude of DPOAE (i.e. subjective + objective changes) after treatment were 10 patients (28%) P-value = 0.000 HS in study group1, and two patients (5%) P-value 0.321 NS in study group 2, and there was no changes (zero) among control group. Conclusions The uses of DPOAE changing amplitude could be used as a parameter to estimate effect of vitamin B complex on changing the severity of Tinnitus in patients with tinnitus only or those have Tinnitus with SNHL. The supplementation of vitamin B complex could improve the tinnitus severity especially in patients with tinnitus without SNHL.