Intensive care unit (ICU) experienced and skillful people in this field should be employed because the equipment, facilities, and admitted patients have more special conditions than other departments. Our goal provides the best quality according to the condition each patient and prevent many unnecessary costs for preventive treatment. In this paper, the proposed system will first receive the patient's vital signs, which are recorded by the ICU monitoring. After the necessary processing, in case of observing changes in the normal state, risk alarms are transmitted to the nursing station so that nurses become aware of this condition and take all equipment to return the patient to normal condition and prevent his death. The applied graph in this study examines patients at any moment and displays the patient's future condition in a schematic manner after precise analyses. In this algorithm, after calculating the R-R intervals in the electrocardiogram signal, RRIs are thrown into a risk plot (RP) by a projectile. Given the amount of projectile RRI, one of the stairs can host that amount. After a few moments by springs embedded under the stairs, the drain of RRIs is done by the kinetic energy stored in the springs towards the valley of life. If the accumulation of quantities in a stair is too much, the spring will not be able to project those RRIs. By examining this situation, we will introduce an index to determine the risk of death for all patients. The results of this paper show that when a person is in normal condition, there is no density in a certain stair and the ball or the projected RRIs are not limited to a stair. In general, the results of this paper show that the lower amount of RRI dispersion in the RP leads to greater risk of entry into the death range and as this amount decrease, an immediate consideration is required. In conclusion, if the precise prediction of the future condition of ICU patients is available to nurses and doctors, more facilities and equipment could be provided to save their lives. • We focused on nonlinear methods with new aspects to extract mentioned dynamics. • This method can reduce the number of ICU nurses and give the special facilities for high-risk patients. • Our results confirm that it is possible to predict mortality based on the dynamical characteristics of HRV.