Introduction Giant Cell tumors (GCT) are benign tumors with potential for aggressive behavior and capacity to metastasize. Although considered to be benign tumors of bone, GCT has a relatively high recurrence rate. Tumor often extends to the articular subchondral bone or even abuts the cartilage. The joint and/or its capsule are rarely invaded. Surgical resection is the universal standard of care for the treatment of bone GCT. The key ensuring an adequate surgical treatment with complete removal of tumor is by obtaining adequate exposure of the lesion. Presentation of case We reported a case of 24-years-old male with Giant cell tumor (GCT) of the right proximal humerus. Patient presented with chief complaint of pain on the right shoulder and had a history of fell on the right elbow. Radiographic examination showed a primary bone tumor of the proximal humerus. MRI provided excellent depiction in suggesting the diagnosis of cutaneous GCT Campanacci 3, which was later, affirmed by biopsy. Patient underwent successful wide excision and reconstruction. The limb salvage procedure consisted of shoulder resection type 1B and reconstruction with pedicle screw and rod system. During 5 days post-operative period, there was no major event observed. Patient could do shoulder flexion forward 0–30, shoulder extension 0–20, elbow extension – Flexion, wrist flexion extension, and fingers flexion. Discussion GCT of bone typically shown as an epiphyseal, eccentric, expansive lytic lesion with a ‘soap-bubble appearance’. MRI is useful to assess extracortical spread and intramedullary extension. Surgery is the treatment of choice. Curettage is usually combined with cementing or bone grafting. Hemi-articular and total elbow allografts have been used for reconstruction of the defects following tumor excision, but the complication rates are high, and these techniques are reserved as salvage procedures following failed total elbow arthroplasty. Conclusion Wide resection and total elbow arthroplasty enables good functional outcome and lower risk for recurrence. Pedicle and rod system for shoulder reconstruction is a viable option, as it provides good pain relief and functional improvement with lower complication rates.