Objective Carbohydrate response element binding protein (ChREBP) is a transcription factor that responds to glucose and activates genes involved in the glycolytic and lipogenic pathways. Recent studies have linked adipose ChREBP to insulin sensitivity in mice. However, while ChREBP is most highly expressed in the liver, the effect of hepatic ChREBP on insulin sensitivity remains unknown. To clarify the importance of hepatic ChREBP on glucose homeostasis, we have generated a knockout mouse model that lacks this protein specifically in the liver (Liver-ChREBP KO). Methods Using Liver-ChREBP KO mice, we investigated whether hepatic ChREBP deletion influences insulin sensitivity, glucose homeostasis and the development of hepatic steatosis utilizing various dietary stressors. Furthermore, we determined gene expression changes in response to fasted and fed states in liver, white, and brown adipose tissues. Results Liver-ChREBP KO mice had impaired insulin sensitivity as indicated by reduced glucose infusion to maintain euglycemia during hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamps on both chow (25% lower) and high-fat diet (33% lower) (p < 0.05). This corresponded with attenuated suppression of hepatic glucose production. Although Liver-ChREBP KO mice were protected against carbohydrate-induced hepatic steatosis, they displayed worsened glucose tolerance. Liver-ChREBP KO mice did not show the expected gene expression changes in liver in response to fasted and fed states. Interestingly, hepatic ChREBP deletion also resulted in gene expression changes in white and brown adipose tissues, suggesting inter-tissue communication. This included an almost complete abolition of BAT ChREBPβ induction in the fed state (0.15-fold) (p = 0.015) along with reduced lipogenic genes. In contrast, WAT showed inappropriate increases in lipogenic genes in the fasted state along with increased PEPCK1 in both fasted (3.4-fold) and fed (5.1-fold) states (p < 0.0001). Conclusions Overall, hepatic ChREBP is protective in regards to hepatic insulin sensitivity and whole body glucose homeostasis. Hepatic ChREBP action can influence other peripheral tissues and is likely essential in coordinating the body's response to different feeding states.