Objectives The aim of this study is to show a simplified reversible approach to investigate and confirm vagal denervation at any time during the ablation procedure without autonomic residual effect. Background Parasympathetic denervation has been increasingly applied in ablation procedures such as in vagal-related atrial fibrillation and cardioneuroablation. This method proposes an easy way to study the vagal effect and to confirm its elimination following parasympathetic denervation through vagal stimulation (VS) by an electrophysiological catheter placed in the internal jugular vein. Methods A prospective controlled study including 64 patients without significant cardiopathy (48 male [75.0%], age 46.4 ± 16.4 years) who had a well-defined RF ablation indication for symptomatic arrhythmias, comprising a “denervation group” (DG), with indication for ablation with parasympathetic denervation (vagal-related atrial fibrillation or severe cardioinhibitory syncope) and a “control group” (CG), with ablation indication without parasympathetic denervation (accessory pathway or ventricular arrhythmia). By using a neurostimulator, both groups underwent non simultaneous bilateral VS (8 to 12 s, frequency: 30 Hz, pulse width: 50 μs, amplitude: 0.5 to 1 V/kg up to 70 V) through the internal jugular vein pre- and post-ablation. Results Significant cardioinhibition was achieved pre-ablation in all cases (pause of 11.5 ± 1.9 s in DG vs. 11.4 ± 2.1 s in CG; p = 0.79). Eight patients (12.5%) presented catheter progression difficulty in 1 jugular vein (2 right, 6 left); however, the contralateral VS was adequate for cardioinhibition. After ablation, the cardioinhibition was reproduced only in CG (pause of 11.2 ± 2.2 s) as in DG it was entirely eliminated. There was no significant difference between pre- and post-ablation cardioinhibition in CG (p = 0.84). There was no complication (follow-up 8.8 ± 5 months). Conclusions The vagal stimulation was feasible, easy, and reliable, and showed no complications. It may be repeated during the procedure to control the denervation degree without residual effect. It could be a suitable tool for vagal denervation confirmation or autonomic tests during electrophysiological studies. Ablation without parasympathetic denervation did not change the vagal response.