Aim (a) To determine the spatial distributions and levels of major and minor elements, as well as heavy metals, in water, sediment, and biota (plant and fish) in Al-Hammar Marsh, southern Iraq, and ultimately to supply more comprehensive information for policy-makers to manage the contaminants input into the marsh so that their concentrations do not reach toxic levels. (b) to characterize the seasonal changes in the marsh surface water quality. (c) to address the potential environmental risk of these elements by comparison with the historical levels and global quality guidelines (i.e., World Health Organization (WHO) standard limits). (d) to define the sources of these elements (i.e., natural and/or anthropogenic) using combined multivariate statistical techniques such as Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and Agglomerative Hierarchical Cluster Analysis (AHCA) along with pollution analysis (i.e., enrichment factor analysis) Methods Water, sediment, plant, and fish samples were collected from the marsh, and analyzed for major and minor ions, as well as heavy metals, and then compared to historical levels and global quality guidelines (WHO guidelines). Then, multivariate statistical techniques, such as PCA and AHCA, were used to determine the element sourcing. Results Water analyses revealed unacceptable values for almost all physio-chemical and biological properties, according to WHO standard limits for drinking water. Almost all major ions and heavy metal concentrations in water showed a distinct decreasing trend at the marsh outlet station compared to other stations. In general, major and minor ions, as well as heavy metals exhibit higher concentrations in winter than in summer. Sediment analyses using multivariate statistical techniques revealed that Mg, Fe, S, P, V, Zn, As, Se, Mo, Co, Ni, Cu, Sr, Br, Cd, Ca, N, Mn, Cr, and Pb were derived from anthropogenic sources, while Al, Si, Ti, K, and Zr were primarily derived from natural sources. Enrichment factor analysis gave results compatible with multivariate statistical techniques findings. Analysis of heavy metals in plant samples revealed that there is no pollution in plants in Al-Hammar Marsh. However, the concentrations of heavy metals in fish samples showed that all samples were contaminated by Pb, Mn, and Ni, while some samples were contaminated by Pb, Mn, and Ni. Discussion and conclusions Decreasing of Tigris and Euphrates discharges during the past decades due to drought conditions and upstream damming, as well as the increasing stress of wastewater effluents from anthropogenic activities, led to degradation of the downstream Al-Hammar Marsh water quality in terms of physical, chemical, and biological properties. As such properties were found to consistently exceed the historical and global quality objectives. However, element concentration decreasing trend at the marsh outlet station compared to other stations indicate that the marsh plays an important role as a natural filtration and bioremediation system. Higher element concentrations in winter were due to runoff from the washing of the surrounding Sabkha during flooding by winter rainstorms. Finally, the high concentrations of heavy metals in fish samples can be attributed to bioaccumulation and biomagnification processes.