Early postnatal overnutrition in humans is associated with long-term negative outcomes including obesity, increased risk of type-II diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. Hypothalamic neurons from rodents exposed to early postnatal overnutrition show altered expression of satiety signals and receptors, and exhibit altered responses to many satiety signals, suggesting a hypothalamic link between early overnutrition and development of these sequelae. Importantly, several hypothalamic nuclei receive information regarding circulating hormones (such as insulin, leptin and ghrelin) from the subfornical organ (SFO), a forebrain sensory circumventricular organ which lacks a blood brain barrier. Previous transcriptomic studies indicate that challenges to energy balance and hydration status stimulate changes in gene expression within the SFO, including genes encoding ion channels and receptors. In order to determine if early postnatal overnutrition also causes changes in SFO gene expression which may be associated with homeostatic dysregulation, we performed whole transcriptome sequencing on SFO tissue from rats raised in small (4 pups), or control (large, 12 pups) litters. Illumina RNA sequencing was performed on SFO tissue from rats raised from small and large litters, and read sequences were aligned to the Rat Rnor_6.0 genome. Control data were further compared to previously published microarray data set for validation. We found statistically significant (p<0.05) changes in expression of 12 transcripts, three of which have likely roles in neuronal excitability, neurite outgrowth and differentiation, and food intake (Manf, Slc24a4, Cracr2b). Additionally, gene ontology analysis identified a trend among significantly altered transcripts in roles for oxidative stress response. We conclude that the SFO transcriptome is subtly altered by early postnatal overnutrition, and recommend further investigation of the effect of early postnatal overnutrition on SFO physiology and morphology.