Introduction Currently, no effective therapies exist to reduce the high mortality associated with dialysis-dependent acute kidney injury (AKI-D). Serum biomarkers may be useful in understanding the pathophysiological processes involved with AKI and the severity of injury, and point to novel therapeutic targets. Methods Study day 1 serum samples from 100 patients and day 8 samples from 107 patients enrolled in the Veteran’s Affairs/National Institutes of Health Acute Renal Failure Trial Network study were analyzed by the slow off-rate modified aptamers scan proteomic platform to profile 1305 proteins in each sample. Patients in each cohort were classified into tertiles based on baseline biomarker measurements. Cox regression analyses were performed to examine the relationships between serum levels of each biomarker and mortality. Results Changes in the serum levels of 54 proteins, 33 of which increased and 21 of which decreased, were detected when comparing samples of patients who died in the first 8 days versus patients who survived >8 days. Among the 33 proteins that increased, higher serum levels of fibroblast growth factor-23 (FGF23), tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), neutrophil collagenase (matrix metalloproteinase-8), and soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor, when stratified by tertiles, were associated with higher mortality. The association with mortality persisted for each of these proteins after adjusting for other potential risk factors, including age, sex, cardiovascular sequential organ failure assessment score, congestive heart failure, and presence of diabetes. Upper tertile levels of FGF23, tPA, and interleukin-6 on day 8 were associated with increased mortality; however, FGF23 barely lost significance after multivariable adjustment. Conclusions Our results underscore an emerging proteomics tool capable of identifying low-abundance serum proteins important not only in the pathogenesis of AKI-D, but which is also helpful in discriminating AKI-D patients with high mortality.