Administration of antibodies to sclerostin (Scl-Ab) has been shown to increase bone mass, bone mineral density (BMD) and bone strength by increasing bone formation and decreasing bone resorption in both animal studies and human clinical trials. In these studies, the magnitude and rate of increase in bone formation markers is attenuated upon repeat dosing with Scl-Ab despite a continuous and progressive increase in BMD. Here, we investigated whether the attenuation in the bone formation response following repeated administration of Scl-Ab was associated with increased expression of secreted antagonists of Wnt signalling and determined how the circulating marker of bone formation, P1NP, responded to single, or multiple doses, of Scl-Ab four days post-dosing. Female Balb/c mice were treated with Scl-Ab and we demonstrated that the large increase in serum P1NP observed following the first dose was reduced following administration of multiple doses of Scl-Ab. This dampening of the P1NP response was not due to a change in the kinetics of the bone formation marker response, or differences in exposure to the drug. The abundance of transcripts encoding several secreted Wnt antagonists was determined in femurs collected from mice following one or six doses of Scl-Ab, or vehicle treatment. Compared with vehicle controls, expression of SOST, SOST-DC1, DKK1, DKK2, SFRP1, SFRP2, FRZB, SFRP4 and WIF1 transcripts was significantly increased (approximately 1.5–4.2 fold) following a single dose of Scl-Ab. With the exception of SFRP1, these changes were maintained or further increased following six doses of Scl-Ab and the abundance of SFRP5 was also increased. Up-regulation of these Wnt antagonists may exert a negative feedback to increased Wnt signalling induced by repeated administration of Scl-Ab and could contribute to self-regulation of the bone formation response over time. After an antibody-free period of four weeks or more, the P1NP response was comparable to the naïve response, and a second phase of treatment with Scl-Ab following an antibody-free period elicited additional gains in BMD. Together, these data demonstrate that the rapid dampening of the bone formation response in the immediate post-dose period which occurs after repeat dosing of Scl-Ab is associated with increased expression of Wnt antagonists, and a treatment-free period can restore the full bone formation response to Scl-Ab.