In addition to their attractive mechanical properties, the amorphous structure of bulk metallic glasses (BMGs) leads to favourable conditions for their processing using micro machining operations. At the same time, the generally high hardness and strength of such amorphous metals make short or ultra-short pulsed laser ablation a fabrication technology of interest for generating micro scale features on BMG workpieces in comparison with mechanical material removal means. In spite of this, relatively little research has been reported on the prediction and observation of the thermal phenomena that take place when processing BMGs with pulsed laser irradiation for a range of delivered fluence values and pulse lengths. Such investigations are important however as they underpin reliable laser processing operations, which in turn lead to more predicable material removal at micro scale. In this context, this paper reports complementary theoretical and experimental single pulse laser irradiation analyses conducted in the nanosecond (ns) regime for possibly the most prominent BMG material due to its relatively high glass forming ability, namely Zr41.2Ti13.8Cu12.5Ni10Be22.5, which is also known as Vitreloy 1. To achieve this, different pulse lengths comprised between 15ns and 140ns and varied fluence values were considered when delivering single pulses on a Vitreloy 1 substrate using a Yb fibre laser system. A simple thermal model of the laser material interaction process for single pulses was also developed to support the observations and interpretations of the experimental data obtained. One of the main conclusions from this research, with respect to potential micro machining applications, is that shorter pulses, i.e. 25ns and less, could lead to the formation of relatively clean craters. For higher pulse lengths, the low thermal conductivity and melt temperature of this BMG substrate mean that laser irradiation easily leads to the formation of a relatively large melt pool and thus to the re-solidification of material ejected outside craters.