Extracellular matrix microfibrils are critical components of connective tissues with a wide range of mechanical and cellular signalling functions. Collagen VI is a heteromeric network-forming collagen which is expressed in tissues such as skin, lung, blood vessels and articular cartilage where it anchors cells into the matrix allowing for transduction of biochemical and mechanical signals. It is not understood how collagen VI is arranged into microfibrils or how these microfibrils are arranged into tissues. Therefore we have characterised the hierarchical organisation of collagen VI across multiple length scales. The frozen hydrated nanostructure of purified collagen VI microfibrils was reconstructed using cryo-TEM. The bead region has a compact hollow head and flexible tail regions linked by the collagenous interbead region. Serial block face SEM imaging coupled with electron tomography of the pericellular matrix (PCM) of murine articular cartilage revealed that the PCM has a meshwork-like organisation formed from globular densities ∼30nm in diameter. These approaches can characterise structures spanning nanometer to millimeter length scales to define the nanostructure of individual collagen VI microfibrils and the micro-structural organisation of these fibrils within tissues to help in the future design of better mimetics for tissue engineering. Statement of Significance Cartilage is a connective tissue rich in extracellular matrix molecules and is tough and compressive to cushion the bones of joints. However, in adults cartilage is poorly repaired after injury and so this is an important target for tissue engineering. Many connective tissues contain collagen VI, which forms microfibrils and networks but we understand very little about these assemblies or the tissue structures they form. Therefore, we have use complementary imaging techniques to image collagen VI microfibrils from the nano-scale to the micro-scale in order to understand the structure and the assemblies it forms. These findings will help to inform the future design of scaffolds to mimic connective tissues in regenerative medicine applications.