A growing number of elements show well-resolved nucleosynthetic isotope anomalies in bulk-rock samples of solar system materials. In order to establish the occurrence and extent of such isotopic heterogeneities in Zr, and to investigate the origin of the widespread heterogeneities in our solar system, new high-precision Zr isotope data are reported for a range of primitive and differentiated meteorites. The majority of the carbonaceous chondrites (CV, CM, CO, CK) display variable ε96Zr values (⩽1.4) relative to the Earth. The data indicate the heterogeneous distribution of 96Zr-rich CAIs in these meteorites, which sampled supernova (SN) material that was likely synthesized by charged-particle reactions or neutron-captures. Other carbonaceous chondrites (CI, CB, CR), ordinary chondrites and eucrites display variable, well-resolved 96Zr excesses correlated with potential, not clearly resolved variations in 91Zr relative to the bulk–Earth and enstatite chondrites. This tentative correlation is supported by nucleosynthetic models and provides evidence for variable contributions of average solar system s-process material to different regions of the solar system, with the Earth representing the most s-process enriched material. New s-process model calculations indicate that this s-process component was produced in both low and intermediate mass asymptotic giant branch (AGB) stars. The isotopic heterogeneity pattern is different to the s-process signature resolved in a previous Zr leaching experiment, which was attributed to low mass AGB stars. The bulk-rock heterogeneity requires several nucleosynthetic sources, and therefore opposes the theory of the injection of material from a single source (e.g., supernova, AGB star) and argues for a selective dust-sorting mechanism within the solar nebula. Thermal processing of labile carrier phases is considered and, if correct, necessitates the destruction and removal of non-s-process material from the innermost solar system. New Zr isotope data on mineral separates and a fusion crust sample from chondrites indicate that this non-s-process material could be silicates.