The Ca isotope composition of marine carbonate rocks offers potential to reconstruct drivers of environmental change in the geologic past. This study reports new, high-precision Ca isotope records ( δ Ca 44 / 40 ; 2 σ SD = ± 0.04 ‰ ) for three sections spanning a major perturbation to the Cretaceous ocean-climate system known as Ocean Anoxic Event 2 (OAE 2): central Colorado, USA (Portland #1 core), southeastern France (Pont d'Issole), and Hokkaido, Japan (Oyubari, Yezo Group). In addition, we generated new data for selected samples from Eastbourne, England (English Chalk), where a previous Ca isotope study was completed using different methodology (Blättler et al., 2011). Strata of the Yezo Group contain little carbonate (∼1 wt.% on average) and accordingly did not yield a clear δ Ca 44 / 40 signal. The Portland core and the Pont d'Issole section display comparable δ Ca 44 / 40 values, which increase by ∼ 0.10 – 0.15 ‰ at the onset of OAE 2 and then decrease to near-initial values across the event. The Eastbourne δ Ca 44 / 40 values are higher than previously reported. They are also higher than the δ Ca 44 / 40 values for the Portland core and the Pont d'Issole section but define a similar pattern. According to a numerical model of the marine Ca cycle, elevated hydrothermal inputs have little impact on seawater δ Ca 44 / 40 values. Elevated riverine (chemical weathering) inputs produce a transient negative isotope excursion, which significantly differs from the positive isotope excursions observed in the Portland, Pont d'Issole, and Eastbourne records. A decrease in the magnitude of the carbonate fractionation factor provides the best explanation for a positive shift in δ Ca 44 / 40 values, especially given the rapid nature of the excursion. Because a decrease in the fractionation factor corresponds to an increase in the Ca/CO3 ratio of seawater, we tentatively attribute the positive Ca isotope excursion to transient ocean acidification, i.e., a reduction in the concentration of CO 3 2 − during CO2 uptake. Recent studies utilizing a variety of isotope proxies, e.g., Nd, Os, and Pb, implicate eruption of the Caribbean Large Igneous Province as a likely source of increased CO2. Moreover, integration of C, Ca, and Os isotope data reveals new information about the timing of events during the onset of OAE 2.