Studies of OAE 2 sections beyond the Atlantic Ocean, Western Interior Seaway (WIS) and European pelagic shelf are limited. Here, we present initial osmium isotope stratigraphy (187Os/188Os– Os i ) from two proto-Pacific sites that span the Cenomanian–Turonian boundary interval (CTBI): the Yezo Group (YG) section, Hokkaido, Japan, and the Great Valley Sequence (GVS), California, USA; to evaluate the 187Os/188Os seawater chemistry of the proto-Pacific. Additionally we combine new 206Pb/238U zircon CA-ID-TIMS geochronology from five volcanic tuff horizons of the Yezo Group section to test and facilitate inter-basinal integration with the WIS using radio-isotopically constrained age–depth models for both sections, and quantitatively constrain the absolute timing and duration of events across the CTBI. The YG shows an almost identical Os i profile to that of the WIS, and very similar to that of other sites of the proto-Atlantic and European pelagic oceans (Turgeon and Creaser, 2008; Du Vivier et al., 2014). The characteristics of the Os i profile are radiogenic and heterogeneous (∼0.55–0.85) prior to the OAE 2, and synchronous with the inferred OAE 2 onset the Os i abruptly become unradiogenic and remain relatively homogeneous (∼0.20–0.30) before showing a gradual return to more radiogenic Os i ( ∼ 0.70 ) throughout the middle to late OAE 2. A 206 Pb/238U zircon age of an interbedded tuff (HK017) in the adjacent horizon to the first unradiogenic Os i value constrains the age of the Os i inflection at 94.44 ± 0.14 Ma . This age, including uncertainty, agrees with the interpolated age of the same point in the Os i profile ( 94.28 ± 0.25 Ma ) in the only other dated OAE 2 section, the WIS; indicating a coeval shift in seawater chemistry associated with volcanism at the OAE 2 onset at the levels of temporal resolution (ca. 0.1 Myr). Further, prior to the onset of OAE 2 an enhanced radiogenic inflection in the Os i profile of the YG is correlative, within uncertainty, with a similar trend in the WIS based on the U–Pb age–depth model. The interpolated ages, 94.78 ± 0.12 Ma and 94.66 ± 0.25 Ma for this Os i inflection in the YG and WIS, respectively, indicate that palaeocirculation was sufficient to simultaneously influence transbasinal seawater chemistry. In contrast, the pre-OAE 2 Os i profile for the GVS is disparate to that of the YG and those of the proto-Atlantic and European pelagic shelf locations. We interpret the pre OAE 2 heterogeneous Os i values (0.30–0.95) to record a palaeobasin that was regionally influenced interchangeably by both unradiogenic (hydrothermal flux) and radiogenic (continental flux) Os. We conclude that the Os i profiles from the proto-Pacific sections record both trends that are consistent globally (OAE 2 onset, syn and post OAE 2), but also show regional differences (pre OAE 2) between OAE 2 sections worldwide. As such the Os i profiles coupled with U–Pb geochronology facilitate the correlation of OAE 2 stratigraphy, and demonstrate both regional and global ocean dynamics.