Summary Stream restoration aims at an enhancement of ecological habitats, an increase of water retention within a landscape and sometimes even at an improvement of biogeochemical functions of lotic ecosystems. For the latter, good exchange between groundwater and stream water is often considered to be of major importance. In this study hydraulic connectivity between river and aquifer was investigated for a four years period, covering the restoration of an old oxbow after the second year. The oxbow became reconnected to the stream and the clogging layer in the oxbow was excavated. We expected increasing hydraulic connectivity between oxbow and aquifer after restoration of the stream, and decreasing hydraulic connectivity for the former shortcut due to increased clogging. To test that hypothesis, the spatial and temporal characteristics of the coupled groundwater-stream water system before and after the restoration were analysed by principal component analyses of time series of groundwater heads and stream water levels. The first component depicted between 53% and 70% of the total variance in the dataset for the different years. It captured the propagation of the pressure signal induced by stream water level fluctuations throughout the adjacent aquifer. Thus it could be used as a measure of hydraulic connectivity between stream and aquifer. During the first year, the impact of stream water level fluctuations decreased with distance from the regulated river (shortcut), whereas the hydraulic connection of the oxbow to the adjacent aquifer was very low. After restoration of the stream we observed a slight but not significant increase of hydraulic connectivity in the oxbow in the second year after restoration, but no change for the former shortcut. There is some evidence that the pattern of hydraulic connectivity at the study site is by far more determined by the natural heterogeneity of hydraulic conductivities of the floodplain sediments and the initial construction of the shortcut rather than by the clogging layer in the oxbow.