The analysis of blubber fatty acids (FAs) is a useful tool to infer diet of mammals that live in remote regions where year-round studies are difficult. The FA may not be distributed uniformly within the blubber, which can have implications for dietary predictive studies. The aim of this study was to determine the FA composition in the blubber core of the Antarctic leopard seal, Hydrurga leptonyx, and evaluate the potential implications of FA stratification for dietary analysis. The blubber cores of 24 seals were sub-sectioned into outer, middle and inner layers and their FA were compared to those of their potential prey species. A vertical variation in FA composition was found across the whole blubber core of the leopard seal. 17 FAs were found at greater than trace amounts (>0.5%) across all samples and the most abundant were: C18:1ω9, C16:1, C22:6ω3, C16:0 and C18:1ω7, which accounted for approximately 70% of the total FA. Almost all FAs had a continuous gradient through the blubber. Principal Component Analysis confirmed separation between inner and outer layers while the middle layer was a transition. The stratification of the leopard seal blubber was similar to the general pattern observed in a variety of marine species: monounsaturated FA (MUFA) dominated the three layers being more abundant in the outer layer, polyunsaturated (PUFA) and saturated FA (SFA) were more abundant in the inner layer. Polyunsaturated FAs are of dietary origin and SFAs are chemically inert so they can be used as a long-term reserve, which suggest that the inner layer is the site of deposition of the FA obtained from diet. The influence of prey on the composition of the leopard seals' blubber was clearer in the inner layer, although neither outer nor inner layers exactly matched the FA of the potential prey. This suggests that there are other components influencing the FA composition of this predator; therefore, in order to carry out dietary analysis it is important to consider the stratification of blubber and to use the inner layer, where the influence of diet is more evident. This has significant implications for sampling methods in the field.