Concentrating cells from aqueous samples is a common requirement for the enumeration of biomass, investigations of microbial diversity and detection of relatively rare organisms in the environment. Accurately representing the initial sampled environments in the concentrated cells is of particular importance when the subsequent analyses have tangible environmental, economic and societal consequences, as is the case with environmental exposure and risk assessment of chemicals. This study investigated the potential use of four different cell concentration methods: centrifugation, membrane filtration, tangential flow filtration and column colonisation. These methods were assessed against a series of scientific and practical criteria, including: similarity of concentrated community to initial environmental sample; cell concentration achieved; biodegradation test outcome; sample throughput; and capital and maintenance costs. All methods increased cell concentration by as little as 10-fold to as much as 1000-fold. DGGE and 454 pyrosequencing analysis showed concentrated communities to have >60% similarity to each other, and the initial sample. There was a general trend for a more reliable assessment of 4-nitrophenol biodegradation in 96-well plate biodegradation assays, with increasing cell concentration. Based on the selection criteria, it is recommended that there is not one concentration method fit for all purposes, rather, the appropriate method should be selected on a case-by-case basis. Membrane filtration would be the most suitable method for low sample volumes; the increased throughput capacity of tangential flow filtration renders it most suitable for large volumes; and centrifugation is most suitable for samples with high initial biomass concentrations. The poor similarity in microbial community composition of the column colonised samples compared to the initial samples, suggested a concentration basis; this combined with its low sample throughput precluded this approach for future concentration studies of planktonic bacterial samples.