Data compatibility and system interoperability are fundamental for crosswalks and collaboration between domains. The most frequently used references for information sharing are time and location. In order to understand the requirements, fundamental processes, and core information concepts of a domain, a comprehensive, but standardised documentation is needed. In spatial data infrastructures models presented in Unified Modelling Language (UML) are widely used to facilitate the uptake of standards and valorise best practices of various communities. The European agricultural decision makers must deal with many components described in the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) in order to optimize data integration and achieve transparency. Geospatial information plays a key role in the implementation of this policy, which comprises the establishment and maintenance of the Integrated Administration and Control System (IACS). In the past the IACS of the MS has principally served a single high level business case: to run a correct administration of the CAP. However, the recent reform and the synergies with environmental and societal policies create increasing expectations for IACS, which impact upon system interoperability and data usability. These objectives can be achieved by establishing a framework that is standard based, allows flexible extensions, and that supports efficient implementation and information exchange between the stakeholders. This paper presents the development process and describes the structure of a domain model we propose for IACS. This standard driven model was designed to translate requirements into technical elements, ensuring interoperability, and providing flexible extensions at the same time. For this purpose we set-up a formal requirement model, formalized use cases, and integrated ISO/TC 211 and INSPIRE UML based class diagrams. As such, this paper proposes a methodology to help guide how the policy can be implemented. The importance of traceability from IACS and third party business rules to the information concepts was proven by simulation runs. The developed modelling approach yielded a reference for conformance testing, indicated critical points of potential errors, and highlighted the impact of eventual changes. Storing all concepts and implementation options of IACS in a unique framework helps to eliminate redundant efforts, provides a strong basis for developing various applications, underpins interoperability with other domains and enhances transparency of the CAP.