As the use of second-generation biofuel crops increases, so do questions about sustainability, particularly their potential to affect fossil energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. This study used a life-cycle approach to compare environmental impacts associated with three switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) production scenarios: i) regional production from a pool of Tennessee farmers based on in-field inputs and biomass yield; ii) varying nitrogen (N)-input levels from a replicated field study for 8-yrs i.e., a 100% and 9% decrease, and an 81% and 172% increase from 'baseline levels' of N inputs used under objective i; and, iii) a legume-intercrop system compared to baseline levels in order to determine effects of displacing synthetic-N with legumes. When compared across all agricultural inputs, nitrogen fertilizer production and breakdown resulted in the greatest environmental impacts. Although fertilization increased lignocellulosic yields, a 100% reduction in N-inputs from baseline levels reduced the formation of carbon, methane, and nitrous oxides per unit of production, (or dry tonne of biomass over 10-yrs) compared to a 172% increase. Switchgrass yield response indicated a 'less is more' scenario, as inputs beyond the current recommended input level (67 kg N ha−1) are not environmentally remunerating. During switchgrass biomass production, inputs with lesser impacts included phosphorus, herbicides, pesticides, and diesel fuel. Legume-intercropping reduced greenhouse gas emissions and groundwater acidification (5% and 27% reduction in global warming potential and formation of acidifying species, respectively) compared with the 67 kg N ha−1rate. Although N-fertilizers impact environmental sustainability of regional switchgrass feedstock production, environmental consequences can be reduced under proper N-management i.e., ≤67 kg N ha−1 or legume intercropping. However, given that the aim of second-generation feedstocks is to reduce the current reliance on fossil fuels, their production still requires fossil energy-based inputs. Consequently, greenhouse gas reductions and the extent of cleaner feedstock production during the agricultural biofuel supply chain is contingent upon input management and optimizing synthetic fertilizer usage.