One of the conserved traits of arthropod embryonic development is striped expression of homologs of Drosophila segment polarity genes, including hedgehog (hh). Although a diversity of stripe-forming processes is recognized among arthropod embryos, such varied stripe-forming processes have not been well characterized from cellular and quantitative perspectives. The spider Parasteatoda tepidariorum embryo, which has a hh-dependent mechanism of axis formation, offers a cell-based field where the stripes of Pt-hh (a hh homolog) expression dynamically develop in accordance with axis formation and growth, with the patterning processes varying among the regions of the field. In this study, using cell labeling, we mapped the future body subdivisions to the germ disc in the spider embryo and provided substantial evidence for the occurrence of kinetic waves of Pt-hh expression in the presumptive head and opisthosomal (or abdominal) regions of the embryonic field. Notably, combined with cell tracking, we showed that surface cells at and near the center of the germ disc persist in the posterior portion of the field from where Pt-hh stripes sequentially arise, suggesting the operation of ordered oscillations of Pt-hh expression. We then conducted a quantitative analysis of forming/formed Pt-hh stripes using serially timed fixation of sibling embryos. By utilizing length measurements that reflect the axis growth of the embryonic field, we reconstructed the pattern dynamics, which captured repeated splitting of Pt-hh stripes and oscillations of Pt-hh expression in the presumptive head and opisthosomal regions, respectively. In the intermediate thoracic region, three stripes of Pt-hh expression showed a late appearance, with the segmental units specified much earlier by another mechanism. Analyses provided quantitative estimates related to axis growth and stripe-splitting and oscillation events, including the periods of the patterning cycles. This work characterizes the diversity of stripe-forming processes in a cell-based field in a common spatiotemporal framework and highlights the contrasting dynamics of splitting versus oscillation. The cellular and quantitative data presented here provide the foundation for experimental, theoretical and evolutionary studies of cell-based pattern formation, especially body axis segmentation in arthropods.