Background Type 2A protein phosphatase (PP2A) enzymes are serine/threonine phosphatases which comprise a scaffold A subunit, a regulatory B subunit and a catalytic C subunit, and have been implicated in the dephosphorylation of multiple cardiac phosphoproteins. B subunits determine subcellular targeting, substrate specificity and catalytic activity, and can themselves be regulated by post-translational modifications. We explored potential β-adrenergic regulation of PP2A in cardiomyocytes through phosphorylation of the regulatory B subunit isoform B56δ. Methods and results Phosphate affinity SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analysis revealed increased phosphorylation of B56δ in adult rat ventricular myocytes (ARVM) exposed to the β-adrenergic receptor (βAR) agonist isoprenaline (ISO). Phosphorylation of B56δ occurred at S573, primarily through stimulation of the β1AR subtype, and was dependent on PKA activity. The functional role of the phosphorylation was explored in ARVM transduced with adenoviruses expressing wild type (WT) or non-phosphorylatable (S573A) B56δ, fused to GFP at the N-terminus. C subunit expression was increased in ARVM expressing GFP-B56δ-WT or GFP-B56δ-S573A, both of which co-immunoprecipitated with endogenous C and A subunits. PP2A activity in cell lysates was increased in response to ISO in ARVM expressing GFP-B56δ-WT but not GFP-B56δ-S573A. Immunoblot analysis of the phosphoproteome in ARVM expressing GFP-B56δ-WT or GFP-B56δ-S573A with antibodies detecting (i) phospho-serine/threonine residues in distinct kinase substrate motifs or (ii) specific phosphorylated residues of functional importance in selected proteins revealed a comparable phosphorylation profile in the absence or presence of ISO stimulation. Conclusions In cardiomyocytes, βAR stimulation induces PKA-mediated phosphorylation of the PP2A regulatory subunit isoform B56δ at S573, which increases associated PP2A catalytic activity. This is likely to regulate the phosphorylation status of specific B56δ-PP2A substrates, which remain to be identified.