Background X-linked lymphoproliferative disease 1 arises from mutations in the SH2D1A gene encoding SLAM-associated protein (SAP), an adaptor protein expressed in T, natural killer (NK), and NKT cells. Defects lead to abnormalities of T-cell and NK cell cytotoxicity and T cell–dependent humoral function. Clinical manifestations include hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis, lymphoma, and dysgammaglobulinemia. Curative treatment is limited to hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, with outcomes reliant on a good donor match. Objectives Because most symptoms arise from defective T-cell function, we investigated whether transfer of SAP gene–corrected T cells could reconstitute known effector cell defects. Methods CD3+ lymphocytes from Sap-deficient mice were transduced with a gammaretroviral vector encoding human SAP cDNA before transfer into sublethally irradiated Sap-deficient recipients. After immunization with the T-dependent antigen 4-hydroxy-3-nitrophenylacetly chicken gammaglobulin (NP-CGG), recovery of humoral function was evaluated through germinal center formation and antigen-specific responses. To efficiently transduce CD3+ cells from patients, we generated an equivalent lentiviral SAP vector. Functional recovery was demonstrated by using in vitro cytotoxicity and T follicular helper cell function assays alongside tumor clearance in an in vivo lymphoblastoid cell line lymphoma xenograft model. Results In Sap-deficient mice 20% to 40% engraftment of gene-modified T cells led to significant recovery of germinal center formation and NP-specific antibody responses. Gene-corrected T cells from patients demonstrated improved cytotoxicity and T follicular helper cell function in vitro. Adoptive transfer of gene-corrected cytotoxic T lymphocytes from patients reduced tumor burden to a level comparable with that seen in healthy donor cytotoxic T lymphocytes in an in vivo lymphoma model. Conclusions These data demonstrate that autologous T-cell gene therapy corrects SAP-dependent defects and might offer an alternative therapeutic option for patients with X-linked lymphoproliferative disease 1.