Background Previous studies of immunoglobulin gene sequences in patients with allergic diseases using low-throughput Sanger sequencing have limited the analytic depth for characterization of IgE repertoires. Objectives We used a high-throughput, next-generation sequencing approach to characterize immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene (IGH) repertoires in patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis (AR) with the aim of better understanding the underlying disease mechanisms. Methods IGH sequences in matched peripheral blood and nasal biopsy specimens from nonallergic healthy control subjects (n = 3) and patients with grass pollen–related AR taken in season (n = 3) or out of season (n = 4) were amplified and pyrosequenced on the 454 GS FLX+ System. Results A total of 97,610 IGH (including 8,135 IgE) sequences were analyzed. Use of immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable region gene families 1 (IGHV1) and 5 (IGHV5) was higher in IgE clonotypic repertoires compared with other antibody classes independent of atopic status. IgE repertoires measured inside the grass pollen season were more diverse and more mutated (particularly in the biopsy specimens) and had more evidence of antigen-driven selection compared with those taken outside of the pollen season or from healthy control subjects. Clonal relatedness was observed for IgE between the blood and nasal biopsy specimens. Furthermore in patients with AR, but not healthy control subjects, we found clonal relatedness between IgE and IgG classes. Conclusion This is the first report that exploits next-generation sequencing to determine local and peripheral blood IGH repertoires in patients with respiratory allergic disease. We demonstrate that natural pollen exposure was associated with changes in IgE repertoires that were suggestive of ongoing germinal center reactions. Furthermore, these changes were more often apparent in nasal biopsy specimens compared with peripheral blood and in patients with AR compared with healthy control subjects.