Background Loss-of-function mutations in the skin barrier protein filaggrin (FLG) are a major risk for atopic dermatitis (AD). The pathogenic sequence of disturbances in skin barrier function before or during the early development of AD is not fully understood. A more detailed understanding of these events is needed to develop a clearer picture of disease pathogenesis. A robust, noninvasive test to identify babies at high risk of AD would be important in planning early intervention and/or prevention studies. Objectives To ascertain whether a noninvasive measurement of skin barrier function at day 2 after birth and at 2 months predicts the development of AD at 1 year. Furthermore, to determine whether increases in transepidermal water loss (TEWL) predate the development of clinical AD. Methods A total of 1903 infants were enrolled in the Cork Babies After Scope: Evaluating the Longitudinal Impact Using Neurological and Nutritional Endpoints Birth Cohort study from July 2009 to October 2011. Measurements of TEWL were made at birth (day 2) and at 2 and 6 months. The presence of AD was ascertained at 6 and 12 months, and disease severity was assessed by using the SCORing Atopic Dermatitis clinical tool at 6 months and by using both the SCORing Atopic Dermatitis clinical tool and Nottingham Severity Score at 12 months. A total of 1300 infants were genotyped for FLG mutations. Results At 6 months, 18.7% of the children had AD, and at 12 months, 15.53%. In a logistic regression model, day 2 upper quartile TEWL measurement was significantly predictive of AD at 12 months (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve, 0.81; P < .05). Lowest quartile day 2 TEWL was protective against AD at 12 months. An upper quartile 2 month TEWL was also strongly predictive of AD at 12 months (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve, 0.84; P < .05). At both ages, this effect was independent of parental atopy, FLG status, or report of an itchy flexural rash at 2 months. Associations were increased when parental atopy status or child FLG mutation status was added into the linear regression model. Conclusions Impairment of skin barrier function at birth and at 2 months precedes clinical AD. In addition to providing important mechanistic insights into disease pathogenesis, these findings have implications for the optimal timing of interventions for the prevention of AD.