Introduction Trachoma, caused by the intracellular bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis (Ct), is the leading infectious cause of preventable blindness. Many commercial platforms are available that provide highly sensitive and specific detection of Ct DNA. However, the majority of these commercial platforms are inaccessible for population-level surveys in resource-limited settings typical to trachoma control programmes. We developed two low-cost quantitative PCR (qPCR) tests for Ct using readily available reagents on standard real-time thermocyclers. Methods Each multiplex qPCR test targets one genomic and one plasmid Ct target in addition to an endogenous positive control for Homo sapiens DNA. The quantitative performance of the qPCR assays in clinical samples was determined by comparison to a previously evaluated droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) test. The diagnostic performance of the qPCR assays were evaluated against a commercial assay (artus C. trachomatis Plus RG PCR, Qiagen) using molecular diagnostics quality control standards and clinical samples. We examined the yield of Ct DNA prepared from five different DNA extraction kits and a cold chain-free dry-sample preservation method using swabs spiked with fixed concentrations of human and Ct DNA. Results The qPCR assay was highly reproducible (Ct plasmid and genomic targets mean total coefficients of variance 41.5% and 48.3%, respectively). The assay detected 8/8 core specimens upon testing of a quality control panel and performed well in comparison to commercially marketed comparator test (sensitivity and specificity>90%). Optimal extraction and sample preservation methods for research applications were identified. Conclusion We describe a pipeline from collection to diagnosis providing the most efficient sample preservation and extraction with significant per test cost savings over a commercial qPCR diagnostic assay. The assay and its evaluation should allow control programs wishing to conduct independent research within the context of trachoma control, access to an affordable test with defined performance characteristics.