Objective We describe sources expected to provide for future care needs among baby-boomers in their late sixties and examine how expectations vary according to earlier health and social experiences. We hypothesised that greater integration in social relationships across adulthood is associated with greater expectation of informal care, and that greater morbidity over a longer time period is associated with greater expectation of formal care. Method The MRC National Survey of Health and Development, a population-based birth cohort study set in mainland Britain, provided data on care expectations for 2135 participants aged 68–69. The outcome was who, besides the partner or spouse, is expected to provide for the future care needs, coded as adult children, other relatives, friends/neighbours, paid/professional care, or no one. Adult children were taken as the reference category and the latter two categories were combined as ‘formal care’ in the multiple regression analysis. Results 91% had an adult child, of whom 74% expected them to provide care if needed, and 11% expected formal care. The latter rose to 33% of those with no adult children. Geographical distance to adult children (over 25 miles) was strongly correlated with expectations but, independently of this, lack of someone to help in a crisis from midlife onwards and low social contact were associated with expecting formal care. Expectations did not differ by number of chronic conditions, functional limitations or longstanding illness from age 60 + . Conclusion Those lacking social relationships in midlife onwards and those living further from adult children are more likely to expect formal help with their future care needs. As personal care needs are projected to rise with population ageing and families are increasingly expected to provide for these needs, initiatives to remove barriers to smaller distances between ageing parents and their children and to support and maintain high-quality family relationships across the life course should be considered.