Background Endogenous nitric oxide (NO) may contribute to ischemic and anesthetic preconditioning while exogenous NO protects against ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury in the heart and other organs. Why those beneficial effects observed in animal models do not always translate into clinical effectiveness remains unclear. To mitigate reperfusion damage a source of NO is required. NO inhalation is known to increase tissue NO metabolites, but little information exists about the lifetime of these species. We therefore sought to investigate the fate of major NO metabolite classes following NO inhalation in mice in vivo. Methods C57BL/6J mice were exposed to 80 ppm NO for 1 h. NO metabolites were measured in blood (plasma and erythrocytes) and tissues (heart, liver, lung, kidney and brain) immediately after NO exposure and up to 48 h thereafter. Concentrations of S-nitrosothiols, N-nitrosamines and NO-heme products as well as nitrite and nitrate were quantified by gas-phase chemiluminescence and ion chromatography. In separate experiments, mice breathed 80 ppm NO for 1 h prior to cardiac I/R injury (induced by coronary arterial ligation for 1 h, followed by recovery). After sacrifice, the size of the myocardial infarction (MI) and the area at risk (AAR) were measured. Results After NO inhalation, elevated nitroso/nitrosyl levels returned to baseline over the next 24 h, with distinct multi-phasic decay profiles in each compartment. S/N-nitroso compounds and NO-hemoglobin in blood decreased exponentially, but remained above baseline for up to 30min, whereas nitrate was elevated for up to 3hrs after discontinuing NO breathing. Hepatic S/N-nitroso species concentrations remained steady for 30min before dropping exponentially. Nitrate only rose in blood, liver and kidney; nitrite tended to be lower in all organs immediately after NO inhalation but fluctuated considerably in concentration thereafter. NO inhalation before myocardial ischemia decreased the ratio of MI/AAR by 30% vs controls (p = 0.002); only cardiac S-nitrosothiols and NO-hemes were elevated at time of reperfusion onset. Conclusions Metabolites in blood do not reflect NO metabolite status of any organ. Although NO is rapidly inactivated by hemoglobin-mediated oxidation in the circulation, long-lived tissue metabolites may account for the myocardial preconditioning effects of inhaled NO. NO inhalation may afford similar protection in other organs.