The high-value ketocarotenoid astaxanthin, a natural red colorant with powerful antioxidant activity, is synthesised from β-carotene by a hydroxylase and an oxygenase enzyme, which perform the addition of two hydroxyl and keto moieties, respectively. Several routes of intermediates, depending on the sequence of action of these enzymes, lead to the formation of astaxanthin. In the present study, the enzyme activities of 3, 3ˈ β-carotene hydroxylase (CRTZ) and 4, 4ˈ β-carotene oxygenase (CRTW) have been combined through the creation of “new to nature” enzyme fusions in order to overcome leakage of non-endogenous intermediates and pleotropic effects associated with their high levels in plants. The utility of flexible linker sequences of varying size has been assessed in the construction of pZ-W enzyme fusions. Frist, in vivo color complementation assays in Escherichia coli have been used to evaluate the potential of the fusion enzymes. Analysis of the carotenoid pigments present in strains generated indicated that the enzyme fusions only possess both catalytic activities when CRTZ is attached as the N-terminal module. Astaxanthin levels in E. coli cells were increased by 1.4-fold when the CRTZ and CRTW enzymes were fused compared to the individual enzymes. Transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana was then performed in order to assess the potential of the fusions in a plant system. The production of valuable ketocarotenoids was achieved using this plant-based transient expression system. This revealed that CRTZ and CRTW, transiently expressed as a fusion, accumulated similar levels of astaxanthin compared to the expression of the individual enzymes whilst being associated with reduced ketocarotenoid intermediate levels (e.g. phoenicoxanthin, canthaxanthin and 3-OH-echinenone) and a reduced rate of leaf senescence after transformation. Therefore, the quality of the plant material producing the ketocarotenoids was enhanced due to a reduction in the stress induced by the accumulation of high levels of heterologous ketocarotenoid intermediates. The size of the linkers appeared to have no effect upon activity. The potential of the approach to production of valuable plant derived products is discussed.