Background Long chain fatty acid oxidation disorders (LC-FAODs) are caused by defects in the metabolic pathway that converts stored long-chain fatty acids into energy, leading to a deficiency in mitochondrial energy production during times of physiologic stress and fasting. Severe and potentially life threatening clinical manifestations include rhabdomyolysis, hypoglycemia, hypotonia/weakness, cardiomyopathy and sudden death. We present the largest cohort of patients to date treated with triheptanoin, a specialized medium odd chain (C7) triglyceride, as a novel energy source for the treatment of LC-FAOD. Methods This was a retrospective, comprehensive medical record review study of data from 20 of a total 24 patients with LC-FAOD who were treated for up to 12.5years with triheptanoin, as part of a compassionate use protocol. Clinical outcomes including hospitalization event rates, number of hospitalization days/year, and abnormal laboratory values were determined for the total period of the study before and after triheptanoin treatment, as well as for specified periods before and after initiation of triheptanoin treatment. Other events of interest were documented including rhabdomyolysis, hypoglycemia, and cardiomyopathy. Results LC-FAOD in these 20 subjects was associated with 320 hospitalizations from birth to the end date of study. The mean hospitalization days/year decreased significantly by 67% during the period after triheptanoin initiation (n=15; 5.76 vs 17.55 vs; P=0.0242) and a trend toward a 35% lower hospitalization event rate was observed in the period after triheptanoin initiation compared with the before-treatment period (n=16 subjects >6months of age; 1.26 vs 1.94; P=0.1126). The hypoglycemia event rate per year in 9 subjects with hypoglycemia problems declined significantly by 96% (0.04 vs 0.92; P=0.0091) and related hospitalization days/year were also significantly reduced (n=9; 0.18 vs 8.42; P=0.0257). The rhabdomyolysis hospital event rate in 11 affected subjects was similar before and after treatment but the number of hospitalization days/year trended lower in the period after triheptanoin initiation (n=9; 2.36 vs 5.94; P=0.1224) and peak CK levels trended toward a 68% decrease from 85,855 to 27,597 units in 7 subjects with reported peak CK values before and after treatment (P=0.1279). Triheptanoin was generally well tolerated. Gastrointestinal symptoms were the most commonly reported side effects. Conclusions This retrospective study represents the largest analysis reported to date of treatment of LC-FAOD with triheptanoin. The data suggest that triheptanoin improves the course of disease by decreasing the incidence and duration of major clinical manifestations and should be the focus of prospective investigations. Significant heterogeneity in the routine clinical care provided to subjects during the periods studied and the natural variation of clinical course of LC-FAODs with time emphasize the need of additional study of the use of triheptanoin.