Bisphosphonates (BPs) and teriparatide (TPTD) are both effective treatments for osteoporosis, but BP treatment prior to daily TPTD treatment has been shown to impair the effect of TPTD in some clinical studies. In contrast, the loss of bone mineral density (BMD) that occurs after withdrawal of TPTD can be prevented by BP treatment. Although various studies have investigated the combination and/or sequential use of BP and TPTD, there have been no clinical studies investigating sequential treatment with zoledronic acid (ZOL) and TPTD (or vice versa). In this study, we evaluated the effects of sequential treatment with TPTD followed by ZOL, and ZOL followed by TPTD, using ovariectomized (OVX) rats. Two months after OVX, osteopenic rats were treated with ZOL, TPTD, or vehicle for a period of 4months (first treatment period), and then the treatments were switched and administered for another 4months (second treatment period). The group treated with ZOL followed by TPTD showed an immediate increase in BMD of the proximal tibia and greater BMD and bone strength of the lumbar vertebral body, femoral diaphysis, and proximal femur than the group treated with ZOL followed by vehicle. Serum osteocalcin, a marker of bone formation, increased rapidly after switching to TPTD from ZOL. The group treated with TPTD followed by ZOL did not lose BMD in the proximal tibia after TPTD was stopped, while the group treated with TPTD followed by vehicle did lose BMD. The BMD and bone strength of the lumbar vertebral body, femoral diaphysis, and proximal femur were greater in the group treated with TPTD followed by ZOL than in the group treated with TPTD followed by vehicle. The increase in serum osteocalcin and urinary CTX after withdrawal of TPTD was prevented by the switch from TPTD to ZOL. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that switching from ZOL to TPTD resulted in a non-attenuated anabolic response in the lumbar spine and femur of OVX rats. In addition, switching from TPTD to ZOL caused BMD to be maintained or further increased. If these results can be reproduced in a clinical setting, the sequential use of ZOL followed by TPTD or vice versa in the treatment of osteoporosis patients would contribute to increases in BMD that, hopefully, would translate into a corresponding decrease in the incidence of vertebral and non-vertebral fractures.