Microbubbles are bubbles below 1mm in size and have been extensively deployed in industrial settings to improve gaseous exchange between gas and liquid phases. The high surface to volume ratio offered by microbubbles enables them to enhance transport phenomena and therefore can be used to reduce energy demands in many applications including, waste water aeration, froth flotation, oil emulsion separations and evaporation dynamics. Microbubbles can be produced by passing a gas stream through a micro-porous diffuser placed at the gas–liquid interface. Previous work has shown that oscillating this gas steam can reduce the bubble size and therefore increase energy savings. In this work we show that it is possible to further reduce microbubble size (and consequently maximise the number of bubbles) by varying the frequency of the oscillating gas supply. Three different microbubble generation systems have been investigated; an acoustic oscillation system and a mesh membrane, a fluidic oscillator coupled to a single orifice membrane and a fluidic oscillator coupled to a commercially available ceramic diffuser. In all three bubble generation methods there is an optimum oscillation frequency at which the bubble size is minimised and the number of microbubbles maximised. In some cases a reduction in bubble size of up to 73% was achieved compared with non-optimal operating frequencies. The frequency at which this optimum occurs is dependent on the bubble generation system; more specifically the geometry of the system, the type micro-porous diffuser and the gas flow rate. This work proves that by tuning industrial microbubble generators to their optimal oscillation frequency will result in a reduction of microbubble size and increase their number density. This will further improve gaseous exchange rates and therefore improve the efficiency of the industrial processes where they are being employed to produce bubbles, leading to a reduction in associated energy costs and an increase in the overall economic and energetic feasibility of these processes.