The dataset provided in this article are related to the research article entitled “The Journey of Universal Hybrid-pi model-from its Inception to Experimental Validation and its impact on Analog Circuit Design” (Sharma, in press). While analyzing dataset of the incremental output impedances of the BJT Current Sources, Conventional Hybrid-pi model, and Unilateral Model grossly underestimate the output impedances whereas Universal Hybrid-pi Model gives a much larger range of output impedances from ro to 40ro. The quest for these enhanced prediction led to the discovery of “Variable Latching Effect” (Sharma, 1990). Furthermore the ascending order of the dataset of Break-over voltages of Device-under-Test (DUT) were obeyed by the dataset predictions of incremental output impedance by Universal Model but not obeyed by those made by Conventional Model and Unilateral model. Direct experimental measurement of output impedances of current sources using laboratory setup validated Universal Hybrid-pi Model (Sharma, 2003) [3] but the results were inconclusive. The experimental measurement of the incremental output impedances by a Professional setup was also done and verified by analytical results. All incremental analysis is carried out at a given Q-point and Q-point decides the incremental parameters of the Hybrid-pi model and T-model which are to be used in the analytic relations (2), (3) and (4) given in the main text (Sharma, in press). Q-points of the current sources at which the output impedance measurement have been made are given in this dataset (see Table 6). Model parameters at the given Q-points are derived from simple analytic relations given in the main text (Sharma, in press) and tabulated in Table 7 and Table 7A. The theoretical incremental output impedance are calculated for the conventional model, universal model and T-model and compared with the experimentally measured values of output impedance and tabulated in this dataset (see Table 8 and Figure 8). A very high gain Differential Amplifier׳s incremental voltage gain is experimentally measured and analytically verified. The experimental values and Universal Hybrid-pi model theoretical analytic results are given . The conventional model analytic results for incremental voltage gains are also tabulated. This article data is being made publicly available to enable critical or extended analysis.