This article contains data on the synthesis and mechanical characterization of polysiloxane-based urea-elastomers (PSUs) and is related to the research article entitled “Influence of PDMS molecular weight on transparency and mechanical properties of soft polysiloxane-urea-elastomers for intraocular lens application” (Riehle et al., 2018) [1]. These elastomers were prepared by a two-step polyaddition using the aliphatic diisocyanate 4,4′-Methylenbis(cyclohexylisocyanate) (H12MDI), a siloxane-based chain extender 1,3-Bis(3-aminopropyl)-1,1,3,3-tetramethyldisiloxane (APTMDS) and amino-terminated polydimethylsiloxanes (PDMS) or polydimethyl-methyl-phenyl-siloxane-copolymers (PDMS-Me,Ph), respectively. (More details about the synthesis procedure and the reaction scheme can be found in the related research article (Riehle et al., 2018) [1]). Amino-terminated polydimethylsiloxanes with varying molecular weights and PDMS-Me,Ph-copolymers were prepared prior by a base-catalyzed ring-chain equilibration of a cyclic siloxane and the endblocker APTMDS. This DiB article contains a procedure for the synthesis of the base catalyst tetramethylammonium-3-aminopropyl-dimethylsilanolate and a generic synthesis procedure for the preparation of a PDMS having a targeted number average molecular weight M ¯ n of 3000 g mol−1. Molecular weights and the amount of methyl-phenyl-siloxane within the polysiloxane-copolymers were determined by 1H NMR and 29Si NMR spectroscopy. The corresponding NMR spectra and data are described in this article. Additionally, this DiB article contains processed data on in line and off line FTIR-ATR spectroscopy, which was used to follow the reaction progress of the polyaddition by showing the conversion of the diisocyanate. All relevant IR band assignments of a polydimethylsiloxane-urea spectrum are described in this article. Finally, data on the tensile properties and the mechanical hysteresis-behaviour at 100% elongation of PDMS-based polyurea-elastomers are shown in dependence to the PDMS molecular weight.