Introduction Burn injury inevitably leads to changes in the endogenous production of cytokines, as well as adrenal and gonadal steroids. Previous studies have reported gender-related differences in outcome following burn injury, which suggests that gonadal steroids may play a role. The aim of this study was to assess alterations in concentration of endogenous steroids in patients with burn injury. Methods For this single-center, prospective descriptive study, high-sensitivity liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS)-based steroid quantification was used to determine longitudinal profiles of the concentrations of endogenous steroids in plasma from sixteen adult male patients with burn injury (14.5–72% of total body surface area). Steroids were extracted from plasma samples and analyzed using multiple reaction monitoring acquisition, with electrospray ionization on a triple quadruple mass spectrometer. Total protein concentration was measured in the samples using spectrophotometry. Results Steroid and total protein concentration distributions were compared to reference intervals characteristic of healthy adult men. Concentrations of the following steroids in plasma of burn injured patients were found to correlate positively to the area of the burn injury: cortisol (r =0.84), corticosterone (r =0.73), 11-deoxycortisol (r =0.72), androstenedione (r =0.72), 17OH-progesterone (r =0.68), 17OH-pregnenolone (r =0.64) and pregnenolone (r =0.77). Concentrations of testosterone decreased during the acute phase and were up to ten-times lower than reference values for healthy adult men, while concentrations of estrone were elevated. By day 21 after injury, testosterone concentrations were increased in younger, but not older, patients. The highest concentrations of estrone were observed on day 3 after the injury and then declined by day 21 to concentrations comparable to those observed on the day of the injury. Conclusion Burn injury alters endogenous steroid biosynthesis, with decreased testosterone concentrations and elevated estrone concentrations, during the first 21days after the injury. Concentrations of glucocorticoids, progestagens and androgen precursors correlated positively with the area of burn injury. The finding of increased estrone following burn injury needs to be confirmed in a larger hypothesis-driven study.