In order to assess the effect of dietary phosphorus (P) in reducing vertebral malformations and improving freshwater (FW) performance in triploid Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar), both triploid and diploid Atlantic salmon were fed three different dietary P inclusion levels (low: 4.9, medium: 7.7, and high: 9.7 g available P kg−1) from first feeding until smolt. Somatic and skeletal response was assessed at fry (~0.5 g), parr (~5 g) and smolt (~45 g) stages. Triploid parr initially grew faster on the high P diet, while groups fed low P resulted in a significantly higher weight at smolt. Image analysis of double stained Alcian blue and Alizarin red S fry revealed that low P fed triploid fish presented less well mineralised vertebrae, and significantly more malformed vertebrae in both parr and smolt stages following x-ray radiographic assessment. Triploid parr fed high and medium P had similar numbers of malformed vertebrae relative to their diploid counterparts but greater numbers than at smolt. Low P fed triploids had the highest prevalence of jaw and vertebral malformations as well as the highest number of deformed vertebrae in the central caudal vertebral region, which was more pronounced at parr than at smolt. Shorter vertebrae dorso-ventral lengths were observed throughout the spinal column (R1–R4) in parr fed low P and only in the caudal region (R3) at smolt. In parr, both ploidies showed reduced phosphate homeostasis protein fgf23 gene expression in vertebrae when fed low P diets, while triploids showed greater down-regulation of osteogenic factors (alp, opn and igf1r) between diets relative to diploids, suggesting possible greater active suppression of mineralisation and reduced osteogenic potential in triploids. No effects of diet or ploidy on gene expression were evident at smolt. Comparisons between development stages suggest early P supplementation in triploids is crucial for skeletal development. Ultimately, reducing vertebral deformities observed at smolt with higher P supplementation in triploids could contribute towards improving skeletal performance and welfare of the stocks in the marine phase.