Information on fish embryo membrane permeability is vital in their cryopreservation. Whilst conventional volumetric measurement based assessment methods have been widely used in fish embryo membrane permeability studies, they are lengthy and reduce the capacity for multi-embryo measurement during an experimental run. A new rapid ‘real-time’ measurement technique is required to determine membrane permeability during cryoprotectant treatment. In this study, zebrafish (Danio rerio) embryo membrane permeability to cryoprotectants was investigated using impedance spectroscopy. An embryo holding cell, capable of holding up to 10 zebrafish embryos was built incorporating the original system electrods for measuring the impedance spectra. The holding cell was tested with deionised water and a series of KCl solutions with known conductance values to confirm the performance of the modified system. Untreated intact embryos were then tested to optimise the loading capacity and sensitivity of the system. To study the impedance changes of zebrafish embryos during cryoprotectant exposure, three, six or nine embryos at 50% epiboly stage were loaded into the holding cell in egg water, which was then removed and replaced by 0.5, 1.0, 2.0 or 3M methanol or dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO). The impedance changes of the loaded embryos in different cryoprotectant solutions were monitored over 30min at 22°C, immediately following embryo exposure to cryoprotectants, at the frequency range of 10–106 Hz. The impedance changes of the embryos in egg water were used as controls. Results from this study showed that the optimum embryo loading level was six embryos per cell for each experimental run. The optimum frequency was identified at 103.14 or 1380Hz which provided good sensitivity and reproducibility. Significant impedance changes were detected after embryos were exposed to different concentrations of cryoprotectants. The results agreed well with those obtained from conventional volumetric based studies.