The need to ensure future food security and issues of varying estuarine water quality is driving the expansion of aquaculture into near-shore coastal waters. It is prudent to fully evaluate new or proposed aquaculture sites, prior to any substantial financial investment in infrastructure and staffing. Measurements of water temperature, salinity and dissolved oxygen can be used to gain insight into the physical, chemical and biological water quality conditions within a farm site, towards identifying its suitability for farming, both for the stock species of interest and for assessing the potential risk from harmful or toxic algae. The latter can cause closure of shellfish harvesting. Unfortunately, commercial scientific monitoring systems can be cost prohibitive for small organisations and companies to purchase and operate. Here we describe the design, construction and deployment of a low cost (<£ 5000) monitoring buoy suitable for use within a near-shore aquaculture farm or bathing waters. The mooring includes a suite of sensors designed for supporting and understanding variations in near-shore physical, chemical and biological water quality. The system has been designed so that it can be operated and maintained by non-scientific staff, whilst still providing good quality scientific data. Data collected from two deployments totalling 14 months, one in a coastal bay location, another in an estuary, have illustrated the robust design and provided insight into the suitability of these sites for aquaculture and the potential occurrence of a toxin causing algae (Dinophysis spp.). The instruments maintained good accuracy during the deployments when compared to independent in situ measurements (e.g. RMSE 0.13–0.16 °C, bias 0.03–0.08 °C) enabling stratification and biological features to be identified, along with confirming that the waters were suitable for mussel (Mytilus spp.) and lobster (Homarus gammarus) aquaculture, whilst sites showed conditions agreeable for Dinophysis spp.