Sea Based Container Culture (SBCC) is a mariculture technique that relies on the natural maintenance of environmental conditions, such as Dissolved Oxygen (DO) concentration and feed availability. This paper discusses a framework to evaluate the rearing success of European Lobsters (Homarus gammarus) in SBCC based on temporal and spatial variations of external parameters, including current velocity, wave velocity, turbulent fluctuations and dissolved oxygen concentrations. The temporal variations considered annual changes to the environment and the effect of biofouling growth, and the spatial variations considered the geographical location (case study of Falmouth bay, Cornwall) and vertical position in the water column. The internal parameters of the containers were modelled using transfer functions derived from previous experimental data. The internal parameters were compared to rearing limitations selected from available literature, which included foraging and mobility behaviours, and DO consumption. The time that internal parameters exceeded the rearing limitations was quantified, allowing rearing success to be predicted. This paper uses a case study of external parameters measured in Cornish waters, UK, to demonstrate the framework methodology. The framework showed that in situ measurements of current, wave and turbulence could be used to predict the internal parameters of SBCC containers, which can be used to predict theoretical rearing success based on rearing limitations. The framework indicated that DO concentrations within the containers should not affect rearing success; however, the foraging and mobility limits were exceeded by 0 to 30% of the time (depending on vertical position in the water column and assessment method). The paper aims to demonstrate the generic framework methodology and understands its limitations in predicting rearing success. The framework provides a tool to optimise the SBCC design for spatial and temporal varying conditions related to a geographical location or (vice versa) identify suitable mariculture sites based on SBCC design and environmental conditions. Additionally, the framework can optimise the vertical position of the SBCC in the water column and identify, from parameters considered, those that are most likely to affect rearing success.