Seedlings of Pisum sativum cv. Greenfeast were used to determine the influence of the root tip, cotyledons and root-applied cytokinins on lateral root initiation and development Root tip decapitation resulted in a rapid increase in the number of lateral root primordia initiated. The number of emerged lateral roots increased by 30% over the control, Removal of the shoot tip and cotyledons alone, or in combination with the root tip, reduced lateral root emergence and inhibited the number Of lateral root primordia initiated. Zeatin and benzyiadenine at 10−6 M and above inhibited both initiation and emergence of lateral roots. The effect of cytokinin treatments was more pronounced on emergence of lateral roots than on the initiation phase. High concentrations of cytokinin maintained apical dominance of the root even in root tip-decapitated seedlings, it appears as if cytokinins of root tip origin inhibit lateral root formation in the 10–15mm apical section of the primary root. Both cotyledons and the root tip apparently control the initiation and emergence of the lateral roots. Pisum sativum cv. Greenfeast-saailìnge is gebruik om die effek van die wortelpunt, saadlobbe en wortei-toegediende sitokiniene op sywortelinisiasie en ontwikkeling te bestudeer. Wortelpuntverwydering het tot 'n vinnige toename in die aantal wortelprimordia gelei. Die aantal wortels wat verleng het, het met 30% toegeneem ten opsigte van die kontrole. Verwydering van die stingelpunt en saadlobbe alleen, of in kombinasie met die wortelpunt, het sywortelontwikkeiing verrriinder en die aantal sywortelprimordia wat gevorm is geïnhibeer. Zeatin en bensieladenien teen 10−6 M en hoër het die inisiasie en verlenging van sywortels geinhibeer. Die effek van sitokinien-behandelings was meer opmerklik op verlenging van die sywortels as op inisiasie. Hoe konsentrasies sstokinien het apikale oorheersing van die wortelpunt in stand gehou, selfs waar die wortelpunt verwyder is. Dit skyn asof sitokiniene van wortelpuntoorsprong sywortelvorming in die 10–15mm apikale gedeelte van die primère wortel inhibeer. Beide saadlobbe en die worteipunt beheer skynbaar die inisiasie en verlenging van die sywortels.