The ability of four species of Aspergillus, viz. A. flavus, A. versicolor, A. candidus and an A. glaucus group member, to produce extracellular enzymes was investigated using solid media and liquid culture. The most xerotolerant of the species tested, A. glaucus sp., exhibited no amylolytic, lipase or protease activity on any salt-containing, nutrient-deficient media, while A. versicolor, which is less xerotolerant, produced the starch-degrading enzymes, but only at low salt concentrations (5%) in the medium. A. candidus and A. flavus, being the least xerotolerant, however, both exhibited vigorous protease and lipase activity (5% NaCI) but moderate amylolytic activity, although A. candidus alone had the ability to produce amylase and protease at high salt concentrations (10% and 15% NaCI, respectively). The suggestion is made that these fungi affect seed deterioration by different strategies and this may depend on the spectrum of extracellular enzymes produced. It would appear that there is a shift in the type of enzyme produced, from those that degrade polysaccharides (xerotolerant fungi) to proteases and lipases (less xerotolerant fungi). S. Afr. J. Bot. 1985, 51: 425–431 Die vermoë van vier Aspergillus-spesies, A. flavus, A. versicolor, A. candidus en ‘n A. glaucus-groeplid, om ekstraselIulêre ensieme te produseer, is ondersoek deur van soliede en vloeibare groeimedia gebruik te maak. Die mees droogtebestande soort, A. glaucus, het geen amilolitiese, lipase- of protease-aktiwiteit op enige southoudende, voedingsarm media getoon nie, terwyl A. versicolor, wat minder droogtebestand is, ‘n styselafbrekende ensiem geproduseer het maar slegs by lae soutkonsentrasies (5%) in die medium. A. candidus en A. flavus, wat minder droogtebestand is, toon sterk protease-en Iipase-aktiwiteit (5 % NaCI) maar matige amilolitiese aktiwiteit, alhoewel A. candidus alleen die verrhoë besit om amilase en protease by hoe soutkonsentrasies (10% en 15% NaCI, respektiewelik) te produseer. Daar word voorgestel dat hierdie fungi saadverval op verskillende maniere beïnvloed, en dit hang af van die spektrum ekstrasellulêre ensieme wat geproduseer word. Dit wil voorkom of daar ‘n verskuiwing is in die tipe ensiem wat geproduseer word, van die wat polisaggariede afbreek (droogtebestande fungi) tot protease en lipase (minder droogtebestande fungi). S.-Afr. Tydskr. PIantk. 1985, 51: 425 — 431