Globally, the commercialisation of plants as observed in their uses by many industries such as the cosmeceutical, nutraceutical and pharmaceutical ones is gaining more interest and popularity. Mondia whitei is a popular medicinal plant which is endemic to Africa. Since antiquity, M. whitei has been used by African people to treat various ailments. The roots were used for the treatment of anorexia, stress, bilharzia and sexual dysfunction as well as for general aches and pains. Researchers have evaluated the efficacy of most of these claims by screening the M. whitei for biological activities such as antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory and anthelmintic as well as aphrodisiac efficacy. Furthermore, M. whitei has horticultural, nutritional and other socio-cultural values as reported in countries such as South Africa, Nigeria, Zimbabwe, Kenya, Uganda and Malawi. As a result of its numerous uses across the African continent, we attempt to explore and assess the economic potential of M. whitei with emphasis on medicinal values. The root of M. whitei is the most popular organ used in traditional medicine; consequently, this has resulted in the species becoming rare or threatened with extinction in the wild. Several authors have suggested solutions such as plant or plant part substitution to overcome the over-harvesting problem. The application of biotechnology techniques such as micropropagation and hairy roots also remain viable options which are presently being utilised to a lesser extent. Nevertheless, the sustainable harvesting and feasible conservation strategy for the species remains a major challenge. It is strongly recommended that in as much as the economic potential of M. whitei should be exploited, more detailed attention and studies should be geared towards its conservation. In order to ensure sustainable use and to derive maximum economic benefits, it is necessary to have empirical information detailing its ethno-botanical values, conservation status and commercial potential.