Four populations of the widespread, variable grass Themeda triandra Forsk., from selected sites in southern Africa with different temperature regimes, were grown under controlled conditions at different day/night temperatures and different durations of low temperature. There were few significant differences between populations in the number of tillers per plant formed at different temperatures. Plants from the coldest site (Sehlabathebe, Lesotho) formed most tillers at the lowest temperature. No pattern was apparent in the results for time to anthesis in response to temperature. Increasing the time of exposure to low vernalizing temperatures (15/5°) decreased the time to flowering consistently only in the population from Frankenwald, near Johannesburg, Transvaal. We conclude that there is evidence for only limited differences in growth and flowering responses of T. triandra populations to variation in thermal environments. S. Afr. J. Bot. 1985, 51: 350–354 Vier plantpopulasies van die wydverspreide, variërende grassoort Themeda triandra Forsk., van geselekteerde groeiplekke met verskillende temperatuurregimes in Suider-Afrika is gekweek onder beheerde toestande teen verskillende dag/nag-temperature en verskillende periodes van lae temperature. Daar was min betekenisvolle verskille tussen populasies in die hoeveelheid stingelsuiers per plant gevorm teen verskillende temperature. Plante vanaf die koudste piek (Sehlabathebe, Lesotho) het die meeste stingelsuiers teen die laagste temperature gevorm. Die invloed van temperatuur op die tyd tot antese wys geen waarneembare patroon nie. Deur die tyd van blootstelling aan lae vernalisering-temperature (15/5°) te vermeerder is die tydperk tot blomvorming net in die plantgemeenskap vanaf Frankenwald, Johannesburg, Transvaal verhoudingsgewys verminder. Ons lei af dat daar getuienis is vir slegs geringe verskille in die groeien blomreaksies van verskillende T. triandra-bevolkings op wisselings in die termiese omgewing. S.-Afr. Tydskr. Plantk. 1985, 51: 350–354