Ten crude extracts and their solvent partition fractions from five species of Terminalia collected in Tanzania were assessed for antimycobacterial effects using Mycobacterium smegmatis ATCC 14468 as a model organism. We report here, for the first time, on antimycobacterial effects of root and stem bark extracts of Terminalia sambesiaca and Terminalia kaiserana as well as of fruit extracts of Terminalia stenostachya and leaf extracts of Terminalia spinosa. T. sambesiaca gave the best effects of all the investigated species in terms of the sizes of the inhibitory zones of root and stem bark extracts. A crude methanol root extract of T. sambesiaca gave lower MIC values (1250μg/ml) than its aqueous and butanol soluble fractions (MIC 2500μg/ml). Our preliminary HPLC–DAD data indicates that methanol and aqueous extracts of T. sambesiaca roots are rich in ellagitannins and ellagic acid glycosides. Particularly, one polar ellagitannin at t R 10.3–10.9min dominates the extracts quantitatively and thus may be responsible for their good antimycobacterial effects. In contrast to the more polar fractions, a chloroform soluble fraction of the roots of T. sambesiaca was devoid of antimycobacterial activity. Also crude methanol and aqueous extracts of the stem bark of T. sambesiaca gave promising antimycobacterial effects (MIC 1250μg/ml). All fractions of T. kaiserana roots, except from the aqueous insoluble gave good antimycobacterial effects (MIC 1250μg/ml) and the aqueous extract showed the best effects of the fractions in terms of the size of inhibition zones. These results justify the uses of hot water decoctions of the roots of T. kaiserana for treatment of cough, one of the symptoms of TB. According to HPLC–DAD data methanol extracts of T. kaiserana roots and their aqueous fractions are rich in polar ellagitannins and ellagic acid glycosides. Quantitatively, the ellagitannins dominate these extracts and therefore the good antimycobacterial activity of the methanol and aqueous extracts is assumed to be due to these compounds. Sephadex LH-20 CC fractions of a methanol extract of the roots of T. kaiserana inhibited the growth of M. smegmatis, giving MIC values of 1000μg/ml. Ellagic acid glycosides in these fractions must be responsible for their good antimycobacterial effects since they are present in high concentrations. Good antimycobacterial effects were also obtained with a root extract of Terminalia sericea, and especially the butanol soluble fraction was a good inhibitor of the growth of M. smegmatis (MIC 1562μg/ml). Our preliminary HPLC–DAD results show that the roots of T. sericea are rich in ellagitannins, ellagic acid glycosides and at least one stilbene compound. Extracts of the fruits of T. stenostachya gave good antimycobacterial effects, butanol extracts being the most active. Also the leaves of T. stenostachya, and especially the butanol soluble extracts, give good antimycobacterial effects. Our HPLC–DAD data indicate that T. stenostachya leaves contain large quantities of gallic acid, ellagitannins and ellagic acid glycosides. Our results indicate that many of the investigated species of Terminalia might contain leads for development of anti-TB drugs. Standardized extracts of T. sambesiaca, T. kaiserana and T. sericea roots could be used as easily available and cheap medicines for treatment of TB in remote regions of East and South Africa.