Eucomis autumnalis (Mill.) Chitt produces bulbs that are used to treat a variety of ailments in South African traditional medicine. E. autumnalis is a sought after herb which is fast becoming over-exploited and threatened in the wild. The effects of sunlight intensity, temperature, watering frequency and smoke-water solutions on the seedling and bulb development of E. autumnalis were investigated. Sunlight intensity of 50% achieved the best developed seedlings and bulb sizes compared to 75% and 100% sunlight. The optimum temperatures for seedling development of E. autumnalis were found to be 30/15°C (alternating day/night temperatures). A regular watering frequency (three times per week) produced the largest bulbs compared to less frequent watering. Smoke-water solution at a 1:250v/v dilution stimulated growth and produced the largest bulbs when compared to dilutions of 1:500 and 1:1000v/v smoke-water. These conditions are therefore recommended for rapid propagation of E. autumnalis. The pharmacological properties of the bulbs exposed to different light conditions, temperature regimes, watering frequencies and smoke-water solutions of E. autumnalis were also investigated against two Gram-positive, two Gram-negative bacteria and a fungus Candida albicans. The extracts were also evaluated for their inhibitory effects against cyclooxygenase (COX-1 and -2) enzymes. The results revealed some increases in the bioactivities of some of the extracts from the bulbs exposed to different light conditions, temperature regimes, watering frequencies and smoke-water solutions compared to the control bulbs. High antimicrobial activity was observed in the acetone extracts compared to the water extracts. Full light exposure (100%) and watering frequency of once per week exhibited the best minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) values against Bacillus subtilis while sunlight exposure of 75 and 100% as well as smoke-water solution of 1:500 (v/v) exhibited the best activities against Staphylococcus aureus. In the COX-2 bioassay, the acetone extracts of the bulbs exposed to different light conditions, temperature regimes, watering frequencies and smoke-water solutions showed higher inhibitory properties compared to the control bulbs. However, there were no significant differences in the inhibitory properties of the bulbs exposed to different light conditions, temperature regimes, watering frequencies and smoke-water solutions and the control bulbs in COX-1 bioassay. It is important to carry out studies on the effects of these treatments on the genotoxicity and toxicity of E. autumnalis bulbs as well as investigating the variations in their phytochemical properties.