Large quantities of plants are traded annually in South Africa's traditional medicine or ‘muthi’ markets. A resource in high demand in the Faraday (Johannesburg) and Warwick (Durban) markets is uMavumbuka, a root holoparasite usually identified as either Hydnora africana Thunb. or Sarcophyte sanguinea Sparrm. subsp. sanguinea. However, rhizomes regularly observed in Faraday between 1994 and 2008 did not resemble either species, thereby suggesting that a third, and undocumented, species was being harvested. This was confirmed when the rhizomes were identified as H. abyssinica A.Br. by an American parasitic plant expert. An ethno-ecological study was initiated to verify its occurrence in selected muthi markets. The study further aimed to investigate the distribution of H. abyssinica through trader interviews, host species localities and some previously misidentified herbarium specimens. The study revealed that H. abyssinica was the only uMavumbuka species present in Faraday and Warwick in 2009. Furthermore, the rhizomes were being harvested in KwaZulu-Natal—an area not previously known to be part of its distribution range. Re-evaluated herbarium vouchers and recent photographs taken in the Kruger National Park have confirmed that H. abyssinica occurs in KwaZulu-Natal, Limpopo, Mpumalanga, Gauteng and Swaziland and hence eastern southern Africa. Fragments of Acacia xanthophloea Benth. roots were identified on 93% of the samples that had host roots attached, and we suspect that H. abyssinica follows the distribution of A. xanthophloea in suitable habitats north from KwaZulu-Natal and adjoining the South African border with Swaziland and Mozambique. Acacia karroo Hayne and A. grandicornuta Gerstner have also been positively identified as host species in South Africa from herbarium records. Plant harvesters in the markets cited the common names of several other species that uMavumbuka “grows under” that may be identified as hosts to H. abyssinica in the future. The collection of specimens in areas identified by the harvesters and in areas of suitable habitat is important to verify the occurrence, distribution and habitat of H. abyssinica in eastern southern Africa.