Twenty-eight South African isolates of the genus Colletotrichum Corda were selected to represent eleven species studied. Twenty-seven criteria, comprising morphological and culture characteristics, were chosen for analysis. Data were obtained from cultures grown under standardized laboratory conditions and were analysed by means of multivariate statistical methods. Preliminary cluster and principal component analyses constantly formed groups of isolates corresponding with the species delimitations of C. acutatum Simmonds ex Simmonds, C. crassipes (Speg.) Arx, C. dematium (Pers. ex Fr.) Grove and C. graminicola (Ces.) Wilson. On the basis of the characters employed, isolates of C. coccodes (Wallr.) Hughes, C. destructivum O’Garaand C. gloeosporioides (Penz.) Penz. & Sacc. were interspersed, and those of C. trifolii Bain & Essary and C. lindemuthianum (Sacc. & Magn.) Br. & Cav. clustered together. It is clear that additional characters must be sought and that the relationship between C. trifolii and C. lindemuthianum needs further investigation. The most discriminatory criteria in this study were conidium characteristics and the presence or absence of setae. Agt-en-twintig Suid-Afrikaanse isolate van die genus Colletotrichum Corda is gekies om elf bestudeerde spesies te verteenwoordig. Sewe-en-twintig eienskappe wat morfologiese en kultuureienskappe verteenwoordig, is vir die analise gebruik. Hierdie gegewens is uit kulture van die fungusse, wat onder gestandardiseerde laboratoriumtoestande gekweek is, verkry en deur middel van statistiese metodes vir meervoudige veranderlikes geanaliseer. Voorlopige groeperings- en hoofkomponent-analises het isolate wat met die spesie-afbakenings van C. acutatum Simmonds ex Simmonds, C. crassipes (Speg.) Arx, C. dematium (Pers. ex Fr.) Grove en C. graminicola (Ces.) Wilson ooreenkom, telkens in groepe saamgevoeg. Op grond van die eienskappe wat gebruik is, het isolate van C. coccodes (Wallr.) Hughes, C. destructivum O’Gara en C. gloeosporioides (Penz.) Penz. & Sacc. deurmekaar versprei voorgekom, terwyl dié van C. trifolii Bain & Essary en C. lindemuthianum (Sacc. & Magn.) Br. & Cav. saam gegroepeer is. Dit is duidelik dat bykomstige kenmerke benodig word en dat die verwantskap tussen C. trifolii en C. lindemuthianum verder ondersoek moet word. Konidiumkenmerke en die teenwoordigheid of afwesigheid van setums was die mees onderskeidende kriteriums in hierdie studie.