The gas exchange characteristics of single, attached leaves of the subtropical coastal sand dune pioneer Scaevola plumieri (L.) Vahi (S. thunbergii Eckl. & Zeyh.) were studied. Maximum rates of photosynthesis under experimental conditions were approximately 12 µmol CO2 m —2s — 1, the temperature optimum was broad, centred around 22— 30°C, light saturation occurred at about 1 OOO µmol m —2s —1 PPFD and the CO2 compensation point was 60 µI I—1 all suggesting that the plant possesses the C3 pathway of photosynthesis. There was a direct stomatal response to humidity but transpiration was affected to a much greater extent than net CO2, assimilation, suggesting that internal conductances were lower than stomatal conductances. Rates of photosynthesis declined markedly with leaf age. Stomatal conductances were reduced but there was a slight increase in leaf intercellular CO2 concentrations implying reductions in internal conductances. Water use efficiencies were low and declined with leaf age. It is concluded that the plant does not show any noticeable photosynthetic characteristics that make it particularly suited to its habitat. S. Afr. J. Bot. 1985, 51: 421 — 424 Die gaswisselingskenmerke van enkel, vasgehegte blare van die subtropiese kus-sandduinpionier Scaevola plumieri (L.) Vahl (S. thunbergii Eckl. & Zeyh.) is bestudeer. Die fotosintesetempo onder optimale toestande was ongeveer 12 µmol CO2 m−2s−1, die optimumtemperatuur het ‘n wye speling gehad met die middelpunt ongeveer 22 — 300C, ligversadiging het by ongeveer 1 OOO µmol m −2s −1 PPFD plaasgevind en die CO2-kompensasie-punt was 60 µI I −1, wat alles daarop dui dat die plant die C3-weg van fotosintese het. Daar was direkte reaksie van huidmondjies op vogtigheidsgraad, maar transpirasie is tot ‘n groter mate beïnvloed as C02-opname, wat daarop dui dat interne geleibaarheid laer was as geleibaarheid van huidmondjies. Fotosintesetempo het merkbaar afgeneem met blaarouderdom. Huidmondjie-geleibaarheid het afgeneem maar daar was ‘n effense toename in blaarintersellulêre CO2 konsentrasie wat afname in interne geleibaarheid impliseer. Doeltreffendheid van watergebruik was laag en het afgeneem met blaarouderdom. Die afleiding word gemaak dat die plant geen merkbare fotosintetiese kenmerke wat dit besonder goed by sy habitat laat aanpas, toon nie. S.-Afr. Tydskr. Plantk. 1985, 51: 421 —424