Changes in fatty acid profile, lipid quality, essential oil composition, total phenolic (TPC) and flavonoid (TFC) contents, radical scavenging, antibacterial and insecticidal activities were studied during the maturation of Schinus terebinthifolius Raddi fruits. Total lipids showed their maximum at the earlier and intermediate stage (green and half-red) of maturation, whereas, the highest levels of the main components linoleic and oleic acids were found at the late stage (red). Mature fruits were also distinguished by their high lipid quality as revealed by the lower values of n-3/n-6 ratio, calculated oxidizability (Cox), oxidative susceptibility (OS), atherogenic index (AI) and thromobogenic index (TI). The contents of monoterpenes decreased while those of sesquiterpenes increased during maturation. With the exception of α-pinene which dropped remarkably from immature to mature fruits, the content of the other main components (α-phellandrene, β-phellandrene and limonene) showed irregular variations. The TPC in intact and hydrodistilled fruits was higher at the last stage of maturation, while the maximum of TFC was recorded in the intermediate stage. Concomitantly, extract from residual hydrodistilled fruits was found as the most potent radical scavengers, whereas, the oils were found as the least scavengers. Nevertheless, they showed an appreciable antibacterial activity against Enterococcus feacium and Streptococcus agalactiae and exert a strong insecticidal activity against Spodoptera littoralis and Phthorimaea operculella. Collectively, these results suggest that the fruits of S. terebinthifolius could be considered as consolidated source of lipid and essential fatty acids, which may provide some health benefits to consumers. They also showed that the essential oils of S. terebinthifolius fruits can potentially be used in S. littoralis and P. operculella control in association with integrated pest management practices. Moreover, the use of extracts from intact or hydrodistilled residual fruits for the development of functional ingredients and the production of bio-based preservatives is encouraged.