We present phylogenetic analyses of 37 taxa of Amaryllidaceae, tribe Haemantheae and Amaryllis belladonna L. as an outgroup, in order to provide a phylogenetic framework for the selection of candidate plants for lead discoveries in relation to Alzheimer's disease and depression. DNA sequences from the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and the plastid trnL-F regions were used. Maximum parsimony analyses provide increased support for the sister relationship of Haemanthus and Scadoxus. Within Haemanthus, a well supported clade (89% BS) corresponds to a summer rainfall group (mainly Eastern Cape) with white-pale pink flowers. A second strongly supported clade (100% BS) corresponds to a winter rainfall group (mainly Western Cape) with red-pale pink flowers. Haemanthus montanus, which is from the summer rainfall region, is sister to the winter rainfall group. Alkaloid profiles and bioactivity profiles were investigated for 16 taxa using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC–MS) and assays measuring acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibition and affinity to the serotonin reuptake transport protein (SERT). No alkaloids were detected by GC–MS in extracts of the two species of Gethyllis included in the present study suggesting that Gethyllis (and possibly Apodolirion) species may not produce the alkaloids characteristic for the family. AChE inhibitory activity was found in all investigated clades except the Apodolirion–Gethyllis clade, which can be explained by the apparent lack of alkaloids in this clade. In spite of infra-specific variability of alkaloid profiles observed, dose-dependent SERT activity appears to be pronounced and restricted to the genus Haemanthus within tribe Haemantheae. Three of eight Haemanthus species tested had IC50 <10μg/ml. Two of the most active extracts in the present study contained primarily montanine type alkaloids which have not been tested for SERT affinity previously. Simultaneous evaluation of bioactivity and alkaloid profiles in a phylogenetic framework can potentially be used to select candidate species for phytotherapy and drug discovery.