The jequirity bean (Abrus precatorius) is well known because of its shiny black and red coloured seeds and because of the poison (abrin) it contains. The genus Abrus is placed in a monogeneric tribe Abreae which is placed in a relatively isolated systematic position at the base of Millettieae. To contribute to a better understanding of this taxon, a detailed ontogenetic and morphologic analysis of its flowers is presented. Floral primordia are subtended by an abaxial bract and preceded by two lateral bracteoles which are formed in short succession. Sepal formation is unidirectional starting abaxially. All petals are formed simultaneously. The carpel is formed concomitantly with the outer (antesepalous) stamen whorl, which arises unidirectionally, starting in an abaxial position. In the inner, antepetalous stamen whorl two abaxial stamens are formed first, followed by two lateral stamen primordia. The adaxial, antepetalous position remains organ free (i.e. this stamen is lost). Later in development the nine stamen filaments fuse to form an adaxially open sheath. The filament bases of the two adaxial outer-whorl stamens grow inwards, possibly to provide stability and to compensate for the lost stamen. In the mature flower a basal outgrowth can be found in the position of the lost stamen. However this is more likely to be an outgrowth of the filament sheath rather than a remnant of the lost stamen. These ontogenetic patterns match in parts those found in other Millettieae (unidirectional formation of sepals and stamens, simultaneous petal formation). In contrast, the complete loss of a stamen is rather unusual and supports the isolated position of Abreae and probably justifies (among other characters) its tribal status. A review of androecial characters shows that androecial merosity is on the one hand extremely variable among Leguminosae, varying from a single stamen per flower to more than 500. On the other hand it is noteworthy that the number of stamens becomes stabilised in more derived Papilionoideae such as the large non-protein-amino-acid-accumulating clade (NPAAA clade). This indicates that the androecium has played an important role in the success of a major part of Leguminosae.