Recalcitrant propagules of Avicennia marina were stored under different relative humidities to achieve both rapid and slow drying. Irrespective of conditions, short-term (4–8 days) storage was accompanied by increased rates of protein synthesis and respiratory activity, the initiation of vacuolation and cell division and also by enhanced rates of germination. These data indicate that the germination process is initiated upon shedding. Storage for longer periods resulted in reduced rates of germination and ultimately, in loss of viability. However, propagules dried rapidly retained viability to a lower moisture content than those dried slowly. It is suggested that as germination changes occur during storage, the propagules become increasingly sensitive to desiccation, which might coincide with the degree of vacuolation. Rapidly dried propagules have not proceeded as far along the germination pathway and, at a given moisture content, are not as desiccation sensitive as those dried slowly. Thus viability loss is dependent upon rates of drying rather than on absolute moisture content or storage time, considered independently. S. Air. J. Bot. 1985, 51: 432–438 Weerspannige propagule van Avicennia marina is teen verskillende relatiewe vogtigheidswaardes geberg om vinnige sowel as stadige uitdroging teweeg te bring. Ongeag omstandighede, is korttermyn-berging (4–8 dae) gekenmerk deur ‘n verhoogde tempo van proteïensintese en respiratoriese aktiwiteit, aanvang van selholtevorming en seldeling, asook ‘n verhoogde ont-kiemingstempo. Hierdie gegewens dui daarop dat die proses van ontkieming ingelei word deur propaguulverlies. Berging vir langer tydperke het gelei tot verlaagde ontkiemingstempo, en uiteindelik tot verminderde kiemkrag. Propagule wat vinnig uitgedroog is, het egter hul kiemkrag tot op ‘n laer voggehalte behou as die wat stadig uitgedroog is. Daar word voorgestel dat die propagule toenemend sensitief word vir uitdroging, soos ontkiemingsveranderinge gedurende berging plaasvind, en dat dit moontlik saamval met die graad van selholtevorming. Vinnig-gedroogde propagule het nog nie so ver gevorder tot ontkieming nie, en by ‘n spesifieke voggehalte is hulle nie so droogte-sensitief soos die wat stadig uitgedroog het nie. Verlies aan kiemkragtigheid is gevolglik eerder afhanklik van uitdro-gingstempo as van absolute voggehalte of bergingstyd. S.-Afr. Tydskr. Plantk. 1985, 51: 432–438