With leaf maturity, there was a trend towards an increase in the proportion of cytokinin O-glucosides. This may contribute to the onset of senescence. After separation of the ethanolic leaf extracts by Sephadex LH-20 and HPLC, detection of cytokinin-like activity by the soybean callus bioassay illustrated that the two species differed markedly in their pattern of change of cytokinin content with leaf age. Mature leaves of Salix babylonica contained high levels of O-glucoside conjugates, which decreased prior to the initiation of chlorophyll loss and during the course of senescence. A similar pattern was observed with the free base cytokinins, mainly zeatin (Z) and isopentenyladenine (iP) In this species. Gingko biloba, on the other hand, exhibited an extremely complex qualitative cytokinin profile for mature leaves. Riboside, O-glucoside and O-glucoside riboside derivatives of both zeatin and dihydrozeatin (DHZ) appeared to dominate, although the latter was of greater importance. Senescence was characterized by a decrease in free base forms, Z, DHZ and iP, and a corresponding increase in O-glucosides, ribosides and one unknown compound, right up until abscission. It therefore appears that although cytokinins are implicated in the control of foliar senescence in both species studied, this is achieved by very different mechanisms. Samehangend met blaar-volwassewording was daar 'n toename in die proporsie van sitokinien O-glukosiede. Dit mag wees as gevolg van die aanvang van veroudering. Na skeiding van die etanoliese blaarekstrakfe met Sephadex LH-20 en HPLC is deur middel van die sojaboonkallus-biotoets gevind dat die twee spesies heelwat van mekaar verskil ten opsigte van die patroon van sikokinien verandering met veroudering. Volwasse blare van Salix babylonica het hoë vlakke vah O-glukosied-konjugate bevat wat verminder het voor die verlies aan chlorofiel en gedurende die verouderingsproses. 'n Soortegelyke patroon is gevind ten opsigte van die vrye sitokiniene, hoofsaaklik zeatien (Z) en isopentanieladenien (iP) in die spesies. Aan die ander kant het Gingko biloba 'n baie komplekse kwalitatiewe profiel vir volwasse blare getoon, Ribosied, O-glukosied en ribosied-O-glukosied derivate van beide zeatien en dihidrozeatien (DHZ) was dominant, met laasgenoemde van groter belang. Veroudering is gekarakteriseer deur 'n afname in die sitokinien-basisse, Z, DHZ en iP, en 'n gelyktydige toename in O-glukosiede, ribosiede en een onbekende verbinding. tot en met blaarafsnyding, Dit wil voorkom asof alhoewel sitokiniene in beide spesies in die beheer van blaarveroudering geїmpliseer is, die proses deur verskillende meganismes voltrek word.