While the pollination ecology of many Aloe species is well-documented, knowledge on aloe seed ecology, and hence aloe reproductive ecology in its entirety is limited. The aim of this study was to investigate the reproductive ecology of Aloe plicatilis, a Cape fynbos tree aloe endemic to the Cape Winelands, South Africa. Results from a pollinator exclusion experiment conducted at an A. plicatilis population on Paarl mountain suggests pollination primarily by insects, although bird visitation significantly increased seed set/fruit indicating possible co-pollination with insects. The species' long-tubed flowers and production of concentrated nectar, with observations of malachite sunbirds as the most common avian visitors to A. plicatilis flowers indicate the importance of long-billed specialist avian nectarivores as floral visitors. Analysis of the relationship between plant size and inflorescence production for five populations combined revealed a significant, positive linear relationship between plant size and the logarithm of the number of inflorescences/plant. Natural fruit and seed set determined for three populations (1325, 27,930 and 251,616 seeds/population) suggests low reproductive output compared to several other Aloe species. The smallest (31 individuals) and least dense (75plants/ha) A. plicatilis population produced the lowest seed set/plant (128 seeds) and per population (1325 seeds), suggesting an Allee effect. Evaluation of seed dispersal potential showed that potential dispersal distances were approximately three times the canopy height; however, the occurrence of A. plicatilis on mountains isolated from more continuous mountain ranges on which the species also occurs suggests the possibility of long-distance dispersal by strong, gusty, summer winds. Soil seed bank samples collected from 13 populations yielded close to zero seedling emergence, indicating the absence of persistent seed banks. A. plicatilis seeds stored under ambient laboratory conditions for 3, 18 and 24months were germinated in an environmental control chamber and a laboratory. High percentage germination was recorded for 18- and 24-month-seed (86 and 80%, respectively), while germination of 3-month-old seeds was three times lower, suggesting the need for after-ripening. Germination of fresh and one-year-old seed under ambient nursery conditions at the Karoo Desert National Botanical Garden in Worcester yielded emergence percentages of 67 and 44%, respectively, and were therefore less successful than germination under more controlled conditions. This is the first known study to investigate the reproductive ecology of a tree aloe species and that of a Cape fynbos aloe. The study highlights the importance of further studies on aloe seed ecology, particularly for rare and threatened species.