Charcoal rot (CR), caused by the fungus Macrophomina phaseolina (Tassi) Goid. is a pervasive disease of economic significance on soybeans (Glycine max (L.) Merr.). Similarly, drought is the leading cause of yield loss in soybean worldwide. In this study, CR severity and seed yield were determined in irrigated and non-irrigated environments in 2011, 2012, and 2013 for thirteen soybean genotypes, nine of which were previously determined to be drought tolerant (DT). The objectives were to determine the severity of CR in the putative DT genotypes and to determine the over-all effect of CR on yield in irrigated and non-irrigated environments. Colony Forming Units (CFUs) at reproductive stage R7 were used to assess disease severity and classify each genotype's response to CR. A stress tolerance index (STI) was used to determine the relative impact of soil moisture stress (i.e. no irrigation) on the 13 genotypes. Over all three years in both irrigated and non-irrigated environments, five genotypes were consistently rated as moderately resistant to CR (MRCR) and three genotypes were consistently rated as susceptible to CR (SCR), whereas the responses of the remaining five genotypes varied between MRCR and SCR. Averaged over the three years, there was a wide range (0.36–1.09) of STI values among genotypes. Even though there was a consistent trend, there was a very weak relationship between STI and CFU's at the R7 growth stage. Regression analysis indicated that as CFUs at R7 increased, seed yield decreased, although the relationship was not significant in every year and irrigation environment. Nonetheless, across all years and irrigation environments, a pooled (global) slope indicated a yield loss of 11.5 kg ha−1 for every 1000 CFUs at R7. These data indicated that as CFUs at R7 increased, seed yield decreased in both irrigated and non-irrigated environments. However, as the relationship between CR disease severity and DT was minimal, it may be necessary to select for resistance to both traits using environments where both soil moisture stress and CR are high.