Overfishing has impacted marine species over the last century, with many large-bodied and long-lived species declining to critical levels. Marine conservation areas are a popular management tool to protect and recover marine species and their habitats from intensive fishing pressure and human caused marine degradation. However, many marine conservation areas are thought to have low levels of compliance from diverse fishing populations. Little research exists that quantifies recreational fisher compliance and its drivers within marine conservation areas. We used the Rockfish Conservation Areas (RCAs) in British Columbia as a case study to investigate drivers of compliance. Our objectives were to (1) assess levels of recreational fisher RCA knowledge and compliance, (2) explore factors influencing fisher RCA knowledge and compliance, (3) quantitatively assess levels of fisher rockfish bycatch and release rates, (4) elicit fisher perceptions of RCAs, and (5) obtain fishers’ suggestions for improving rockfish conservation. We conducted 325 structured dockside interviews with recreational fishers in 16 locations. Intentional noncompliance was reported by seven percent of recreational fishers, and accidental noncompliance by 16%. The main reason for noncompliance was lack of knowledge. Recreational fishers were almost uniformly unknowledgeable of RCAs and their regulations across fishing experience levels. We found that 25.5% of recreational fishers had never heard of RCAs and ∼60% were unsure of RCA locations. However, 77% of fishers believed that rockfish conservation is necessary. The high recreational noncompliance rate in RCAs–primarily accidental fishing–is likely compromising the ability of these marine conservation areas to protect inshore rockfish. The ecological usefulness of marine conservation areas hinges upon users knowing about, and understanding, conservation area rules and regulations. We recommend managers implement a public outreach and education campaign to address the high levels of noncompliance.