Metal foams are increasingly used for energy absorption especially in lightweight structures and to resist blast and impact loads. This requires an understanding of the dynamic response of these materials for modelling purposes. As a supplement to Tan et al. (2005a,b), hereinafter referred to as T–L for brevity, this paper provides experimental data for the dynamic mechanical properties of open-cell Duocel® foams having a three-dimensional (3D) distribution of cells. These confirm significant enhancement of the foam’s compressive strength, accompanied by changes in their deformation pattern in certain loading régimes, particularly what has come to be described as the ‘shock’ régime by Zheng et al. (2012). This paper examines experimentally, in a similar fashion as T–L, how the structural response of the individual cell walls is affected by cell-shape anisotropy at the cell (meso)-scale and how this, in turn, alters the pattern of cell crushing and the dynamic, mechanical properties. The distinctive role of cell microinertia and ‘shock’ formation are discussed in relation to the mechanical properties measured for these 3D cylindrical specimens. For consistency the same procedures described in T–L are used. The features identified are shown to be consistent with those observed in finite-element simulations of two-dimensional (2D) honeycombs as estimated by the one-dimensional (1D) steady-shock theory summarised in T–L. The different deformation patterns that develop in the various loading régimes are categorised according to the compression rate/impact speed. Critical values of impact velocity, corresponding to the transition from one pattern to the other, are quantified and predictive formulae for the compressive uniaxial strengths in the directions of two of the principal axes of the material in each loading régime are derived and discussed. The accuracy of the predictive formula in T–L is shown to critically depend on the ‘densification strain’ of the foam specimens. This parameter and the discussion that follows could assist the formulation and validation of alternative theoretical/computational models on the dynamic deformation of such materials.