As large numbers of increasingly smaller spacecraft continue to be launched, means of efficient and reliable orbital maneuvering and orbit disposal have become increasingly necessary. For spacecraft that do not contain thrusters, aerodynamic drag modulation using a retractable drag device or attitude changes presents itself as an efficient way to perform orbital maneuvers and control the re-entry location. This paper introduces an aerodynamically based re-entry guidance generation algorithm for low Earth orbit spacecraft that exhibits significant accuracy, robustness, and efficiency. The paper also presents a novel guidance tracking algorithm whereby the drag device of a spacecraft is deployed or retracted relative to a nominal deployment profile (given in the guidance) based on the difference between the actual and desired state of the spacecraft. A full state feedback linear-quadratic-regulator control scheme is utilized with the Schweighart Sedgwick equations of relative motion to drive the relative position and velocity between the spacecraft and the guidance trajectory to zero. A problem-specific Extended Kalman Filter implementation is also introduced to remove noise from the GPS-derived relative motion estimate. One thousand Monte Carlo simulations of the guidance generation algorithm with randomized initial conditions and desired re-entry locations are conducted, resulting in an average guidance error of 12.5 k m and a maximum error below 106 k m . The tracking of these aerodynamic decay guidances with the aforementioned algorithms is also simulated with drag force uncertainties up to a factor of two and navigation errors (noise and bias) comparable to that expected from a CubeSat GPS unit. Despite these simulated errors and uncertainties, this approach provides guidance tracking down to a re-entry altitude of 120 k m with a final position error under 6 k m for all cases. The algorithms detailed in this paper provide a way for any spacecraft capable of modulating its drag area to autonomously perform orbital maneuvers and execute a precise re-entry.