Machine tools are susceptible to exogenous influences, which mainly derive from varying environmental conditions such as the day and night or seasonal transitions during which large temperature swings can occur. Thermal gradients cause heat to flow through the machine structure and results in non-linear structural deformation whether the machine is in operation or in a static mode. These environmentally stimulated deformations combine with the effects of any internally generated heat and can result in significant error increase if a machine tool is operated for long term regimes. In most engineering industries, environmental testing is often avoided due to the associated extensive machine downtime required to map empirically the thermal relationship and the associated cost to production. This paper presents a novel offline thermal error modelling methodology using finite element analysis (FEA) which significantly reduces the machine downtime required to establish the thermal response. It also describes the strategies required to calibrate the model using efficient on-machine measurement strategies. The technique is to create an FEA model of the machine followed by the application of the proposed methodology in which initial thermal states of the real machine and the simulated machine model are matched. An added benefit is that the method determines the minimum experimental testing time required on a machine; production management is then fully informed of the cost-to-production of establishing this important accuracy parameter. The most significant contribution of this work is presented in a typical case study; thermal model calibration is reduced from a fortnight to a few hours. The validation work has been carried out over a period of over a year to establish robustness to overall seasonal changes and the distinctly different daily changes at varying times of year. Samples of this data are presented that show that the FEA-based method correlated well with the experimental results resulting in the residual errors of less than 12μm.