Wind is a renewable energy source that is freely available on the world’s oceans. As shipping faces the challenge of reducing its dependence on fossil fuels and cutting its carbon emissions this paper seeks to explore the potential for harnessing wind power for shipping. Numerical models of two wind power technologies, a Flettner rotor and a towing kite, are linked with wind data along a set of five trade routes. Wind-generated thrust and propulsive power are computed as a function of local wind and ship velocity. The average wind power contribution on a given route ranges between 193kW and 373kW for a single Flettner rotor and between 127kW and 461kW for the towing kite. The variability of the power output from the Flettner rotor is shown to be smaller than that from the towing kite while, due to the different dependencies on wind speed and direction, the average power contribution from a Flettner rotor is higher than that from the kite on some routes and lower on others. While for most forms of international cargo shipping wind may not be suitable as the sole source of propulsive energy, a comparison of average output to main engine power requirements of typical vessels serving the routes indicates that it could deliver a significant share. For instance, installing three Flettner rotors on a 5500dwt general cargo carrier could, on average, provide more than half of the power required by the main engine under typical slow steaming conditions. Uncertainties and simplifying assumptions underlying the model analysis are discussed and implications of the results are considered in light of the urgent need for decarbonisation. This paper demonstrates the significant opportunities for step jump emissions reductions that wind technologies have to offer. It outlines next steps towards realising the potential, highlighting a demand for more detailed studies on socio-economic and technical barriers to implementation, and providing a basis for research into step-change emissions reductions in the shipping sector.