This paper concerns laboratory wavemaking in shallow and intermediate water conditions. A comparison is made between two wave generation techniques, a first based on controlling the wavemaker displacement, and a second based on controlling the wavemaker force. Nonlinear wave generation in position control is well understood, and many laboratories rely on established second-order or Stream-function inputs. In deep water, using flap-type wavemakers, a force-control approach based on a linear demand signal was recently shown to offer benefits in terms of wave quality. The shallow water operation of such force-control strategies is less certain, which motivates the present study. To investigate the influence of the water depth on this type of control, a range of generation scenarios is considered, including small amplitude and large amplitude regular waves. Adopting both supporting calculations and experimental evidence, the work demonstrates that first-order force-based wave generation in shallow water suffers from similar limitations as first-order position control. This principally concerns the contamination of the testing area due to unwanted free waves, where the present focus is placed on the superharmonic range. The main advance of the work lies in the solutions it offers to overcome this free wave contamination. A number of nonlinear wave solutions upon which force-based generation can be based are discussed, and a suitable methodology is proposed and validated for each case. The developed methodology allows for high quality wave generation, whilst maintaining the benefit of active wave absorption. The work is timely in the sense that is responds to two recent developments. First, the majority of wavemaking facilities commissioned over the past two decades are computer controlled, and active absorption has become commonplace. The work presented offers solutions highly relevant to such installations. Second, developments particularly in offshore wind, have seen many new structures placed in relatively shallow-water depth. It is essential that the model testing of such structures adequately accounts for the issues and solutions presented herein.