This paper focuses on the characterisation of turbine overspeed behaviour to be integrated into an engine overspeed model capable of predicting the terminal speed of the high pressure turbine (HPT) in the event of a high pressure shaft failure. The engine considered in this study features a single stage HPT with a shrouded contra-rotating rotor with respect to the single stage intermediate pressure turbine (IPT). The HPT performance is characterised in terms of torque and mass flow function for a range of expansion ratios at various non-dimensional rotational speeds (NH), up to 200% of the design value. Additionally, for each HPT expansion ratio and NH, the change in capacity of the downstream IPT, for different IPT non-dimensional rotational speeds (NI), also needs to be characterised due to the extremely positive incidence angle of the flow from the upstream rotor. An automated toolkit is developed to generate these characteristic maps for both the HPT and IPT. An unlocated high pressure shaft failure will result in rearward movement of the rotor sub-assembly. This causes changes in the rotor tip and rim seal regions, and in the rim seal leakage flow properties. Therefore, in the present work, a high fidelity characterisation of turbine behaviour with the inclusion of tip and rim seals is carried out at three different displacement locations, 0 mm, 10 mm and 15 mm, to improve terminal speed estimation. Furthermore, there is a possibility of damage to the tip seal fins of the HPT rotor due to unbalance in the spool that may result in contact between the rotor aerofoil tip and the casing. Consequently, another set of characteristics are generated with damaged tip fins at each displacement location. It is observed from the characteristics that the torque of the HPT rotor decreases with increasing NH. The HPT mass flow function initially decreases and then increases with an increase in NH. The IPT mass flow function initially remains similar and then decreases with increase in NH above values of 150%. The HPT rotor torque and IPT mass flow function decrease with rearward movement of the HPT rotor sub-assembly for all values of NH. With worn tip seal fins all parameters mentioned previously are lower than in the nominal undamaged case. The high fidelity characterisation of turbines that follows the sequence of events after a shaft failure, as described in this work, can provide accurate predictions of terminal speed and thus act as a tool for testing design modifications that can result in better management and control of the over-speed event.