In a typical Ad Hoc network, participating nodes have scarce shared bandwidth and limited battery life resources, so resource optimization and enhancing the overall network performance are the primary aims to maintain functionality. This paper proposes a new cross layer Medium Access Control (MAC) algorithm called Location Based Transmission using a Neighbour Aware with optimized Extended Inter-Frame Spacing (EIFS) for Ad Hoc Networks MAC (LBT-NA with optimized-EIFS MAC) that aims to reduce the transmission power when communicating with the next hop receiver based on node's location which is made available during node deployment. However, node mobility is not taken into account in the study of this paper. According to the algorithm the node dynamically adjusts its transmission power, if there is an active neighbour located beyond the communicating source and destination pair to avoid hidden nodes. The new protocol also defines an optimized EIFS when frame collision, frame error or frame capture takes place, in-order to maintain a fair channel access among the contending nodes. The proposed MAC also uses a modified range of random backoff values, based on the degree of contention unlike IEEE 802.11 series which uses a fixed random backoff value for fresh frames irrespective of the degree of contention. Simulation results indicate that in a random topology with a random source and destination, when the two sources are separated by a minimum distance of 200m, the performance gain of power controlled MAC over IEEE 802.11b ranges from 30% to 70% depending on the type of traffics in the network and the degree of fairness ranges from 62% to 99.99% for a location based MAC with minimum power transmission, whereas LBT-NA with optimized-EIFS MAC secures fairness index ranging from 75% to 99.99%. Communication with a node that is 20m away can save 40% of the battery life in comparison to the traditional transmission power MAC from 802.11b. The validation tests demonstrate that the proposed algorithm increases battery life and reduces the interference impact on shorter distance communication and increases the probability of parallel transmission. The proposed protocol also provides a scope for active nodes to transmit with a higher degree of probability, providing higher degree of overall network throughput in the environment and alleviate the starvation of hidden node by using Dynamic EIFS scheme.